Major stakeholders in justice administration gathered in Abuja to chart a new course for quicker justice delivery system and a better justice sector through effective implementation of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA). TUNDE OYESINA was there   F or hours at the weekend in Abuja, members of the Bar and the Bench and other major stakeholders in justice administration gathered to brainstorm on how the 2015 Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) would be made effective with a view to ensuring quicker dispensation of justice delivery system.  Specifically, the stakeholders sought ways through which implementation of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act would be monitored in a bid to ensure that the Act was fulfilling its mandate.  The stakeholders, who gathered in Abuja for a-one-day workshop to propose and deliberate on minimum standards for rating or evaluating the federal government, states and criminal justice agencies with respect to the implementation of the ACJA/ACJLs concluded that when the act was fully implemented the nation’s justice sector would be better off.  The Act passed in 2015 was aimed among others, at protecting rights of persons who would come in contact with the justice system and ensure that all are treated fairly.  Top speakers at the workshop was the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, who revealed that more than 50 fiats had so far been given to about eight Justices of the Court of Appeal in pursuit of the achievement of the goals of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015.  She disclosed that the Court of Appeal had also granted the waivers to enable Justices of the court to go back and complete cases they had partly heard while presiding at the lower courts. “I was part and parcel of the passage of the Criminal Justice Act at inception and I witnessed its implementation,” she said  According to her, if the fiat was not granted, the wheel of justice would have been badly affected as the cases being handled by the promoted judges would have been reassigned to other judges who would have to hear them afresh. She added that the gesture had so far resulted into a big gain for the criminal justice system as the cases that she gave fiat for their conclusions were yet to surface at the appellate court.  In his opening remark, the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), said “the key provisions of the ACJA include the abolition of lay prosecution at the federal level, prohibition of unlawful arrests prevalent at the pre-trial stage such as arrest in lieu of suspect, arrest for civil wrongs.”  Malami went on: “The ACJ Act prescribes arrest protocols and timelines for carrying out specific functions by the implementing institutions.  “Other remarkable provisions are remand protocols, electronic recording of statements/confessions of suspects, establishment of a central criminal record registry (CCRR) at the Police Force Headquarters, clear-cut guidelines for plea bargain, non-custodial measures and a monitoring Committee to ensure that the institutions of criminal justice work in a more coordinated manner to realise the objective of the Act just to mention but a few.”  While stating that about 30 of the 36 states of the federation had adopted the ACJL, he, however, lamented the slow pace of its implementation.  “Distinguished participants, I am aware that adoption of the ACJ Act is only but the beginning of the journey of reforming the criminal justice. The second and more important is implementation.  “However, application of the law has been slow. So, beyond reforming laws, the federal and state governments must put in place the necessary structures to guarantee the successful implementation of the laws,” he said.  In a welcome, President, Centre for Socio-Legal Studies (CSLS), Prof. Yemi Akinseye-George (SAN), said the workshop organized by the CSLS was aimed at rallying support for stakeholders in all the states of the federation for the development of basic or common minimum standards for the effective implementation of the ACJA/ACJLs.  Akinseye-George said the participants would identify common elements in the federal ACJA and ACJLs of the various states and propose standards based on these common elements.  Akinseye-George said: “In other words, we are beginning the process of identifying and agreeing on the minimum standards by which the federal government and the states will be evaluated with respect to the implementation of the ACJA and ACJLs. About 21 indicators will be proposed for consideration at the workshop.  “The indicators will be formally presented to the Forum of State Governors as well as the National Economic Council and the body of Attorneys-General.  “In 2020, a National Review Workshop will be held to prepare the FCT and the states for the First National Evaluation Process.”  Other speakers, however, in furtherance of the Act reiterated the call for appellate court not to entertain interlocutory appeals emanating from corruption cases in defiance of provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) 2015.  Experts said the ACJA should be further amended to provide for sanctions for non-compliance with its provisions.  Besides, the Federal Government should initiate the amendment of the 1999 Constitution to incorporate the provisions of Section 306 of the ACJA. They resolved as follows:  “The Act must be given purposive interpretation and application by the courts so that cases are adjudicated with the urgency required.  “The courts are enjoined to give literal interpretation and full effect to Sections 306 and 396 of the Act so as to avoid unnecessary and frivolous interlocutory applications which are meant to delay trials especially of corruption cases.   “The courts should adopt the wasted costs mechanism to deter counsel from seeking frivolous adjournments.”  “The Federal Government should make adequate budgetary allocations to enhance the implementation of the innovative provisions of the ACJA, including payment of witness expenses, training and motivation of prosecutors, investigators and judges in the light of the huge workload occasioned by the Act.  “Public commentators should desist from blanket condemnation of judges as there are still many hardworking and incorruptible judges in the country.  “The Federal Government should endeavour to pay the salaries of judges regularly and make provisions for their security and retirement benefits.  “States of the Federation which have not already done so should domesticate the ACJ Act using the Federal Act as a template.  “The media should be more vigilant in naming and shaming lawyers especially senior lawyers who employ dilatory tactics to delay the trial of corruption cases and judges who tolerate such tactics.”  The participants, however, appealed to PACC and Malami to throw their full weight behind proper application of the ACJA 2015 as a potent instrument for the fight against corruption.