•Tasks contractor on local content   Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi on Friday rounded off his 2019 monthly inspection of the on-going construction of the 156 kilometer Lagos-Ibadan standard guage railline.  Speaking to journalists at the end of the inspection at the Ibadan end of the rail line, he criticised the pace of work of the contractor, Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC), saying there is need for them to improve, so that their complains and excuses will not repeat when they start work on the Ibadan-Kano standard guage line in the later part of 2020. He blamed the company for not meeting up on timelines and coming up with many excuses.  This is even as he has urged the contractor start to source locally some of the materials it uses on the project.  He said: “This is necessary because our people need emplyment. There is no reason why they should be importing basic things like tiles and window frames from their home country. We have told them to use local materials at the Ibadan Station, once it’s successful, we will continue like that. Summarising his analysis of the performance of the contractor so far, he commended the Chinses contractor for having completed the laying of tracks on the 156km Lagos-Ibadan standard guage line, saying, however, that the pace of work on the train stations was not satisfactory. Sunday Telegraph that there are about 10 train stations from Lagos to Ibadan, three are mega stations while seven are small stations, with the exception of one, it is work in progress at all the stations.  Meanwhile, at the Omio Adun Station, near Apata-Ibadan, the minister ordered stoppage of work over substandard work. He ordered that work should start afresh on the construction of the station, saying his discovery of the substandard work is the essence of the monthly inspection. He, however, reaffirmed the Federal Government’s and the contractor’s commitment to commencing commercial service on the Lagos-Ibadan standard guage line in April when the on going test-running will end.