The Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Mallam Moddibo Kawu, has called on all stakeholders – government, business and consumers of news to work together to solve fake news and sophisticated disinformation campaign. Speaking in Lagos during the 2019 International Human Rights Day organised by the Lagos State chapter of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Kawu said the news industry must provide high quality journalism in order to build public trust and correct fake news and disinformation without legitimising them. Kawu, who was represented by NBC Zonal Director in Lagos, Dr. Chubuike Ogwunike, while speaking on “The Role of the Media in Promoting Human Rights and Curbing Fake News in a Democratic Setting,” advised the government to promote news literacy and strong professional journalism in the society and implored the technology companies to invest in tools that identify fake news, reduce financial incentives for those who profit from disinformation and improve online accountability. He said freedom of speech is key to development, dignity and fulfillment of every person and nation and it is necessary for good governance, economic and social progress and accountability. He, however, said that the right to freedom of expression was not an absolute right and that the Federal Government might, under exceptional circumstances, restricts the rights under international human rights law. In his address, Lagos State chairman of CDHR, Comrade Alex Omotehinse, said that the group attached so much importance to the commemoration of the International Human Rights Day because of the gross violation of inalienable rights. He charged the media to continue to promote human rights and curb fake news in a democratic setting, noting that the media and media practitioners should not be clampdown in the country with any law or policies. He said: “The 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the African Charter on Human and People’s rights respectively guarantee the freedom of speech and expression and thus all attempt by any institution or individual to infringe on that rights as enshrine will not only lead to peoples revolt but anarchy. “The recent clampdown of media practitioners with fictitious, frivolous and obnoxious charges is a serious threat to our hard earns democracy, rule of law, civility and corporate existence that must be urgently resist not only by the freedom fighters alone but the Nigeria masses in general irrespective of their tribes, ethnic or religious believe.” Omotehinse, who urged the National Assembly to promote rights of the citizens while the executive should enforce those rights, called on government to de-congest the Nigerian Correctional Centres.