As part of activities to prevent both old and new infections among Lagos civil servants, doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild recently provided not less than 1,000 Lagos State Government staff free medical screening. The exercise, which took place at the Lagos State Government Secretariat in Alausa, Ikeja, benefitted all those that trooped out to access available health services. The one-day medical mission,  attracted civil servants from six different ministries in the state, to access medical care. The civil servants similarly benefited from free treatment, and counseling. Medical Guild is an association of doctors under the employment of the Lagos State Government. Partipants were exposed to various health screening including for hypertension, diabetes, malaria, dental care, communicable diseases like hepatitis, HIV, syphilis, among others. According to the Chairman of the Medical Guild, Dr. Babajide Saheed, the medical mission was to bring healthcare delivery to workers as part of activities to mark the Medical Guild’s 2019 annual general meeting (AGM). Saheed said the exercise was to identify hidden health challenges among workers, provide free medications, counseling and referrals to appropriate general hospitals or primary health centres (PHCs) for further treatment to those who require it. He said, “Workers work from Mondays to Fridays do not have time to visit the hospitals to check their health status because of the nature of their job.” “In the last few years, we have heard about cases of people who slump and die in their offices and because we do not want that in Lagos State, that is why we have come to check their health status.” According to Saheed, there was a need for people to be conscious about their health status through regular medical check-ups to prevent health deterioration and emergencies. He disclosed that the Guild had in the past conducted medical missions to ensure a healthy society. Speaking in the same vein, Chairman, Organising Committee for the 2019 AGM, Dr. Adeleke Dankuwo said that the screening and treatment was to ensure fitness and vitality among workers. Dankuwo expressed satisfaction at the turnout of the workers, saying that it showed the importance that they attached to their health. One of the beneficiaries, Mr Tosin Adeleke of the state Ministry of Infrastructure, expressed gratitude to the guild for the exercise, saying that he was sick, and on his way to the hospital for treatment when he saw the banner publicising the free medical mission, adding that he simply walked into the venue and got free treatment and medications.