The Bankers’ Committee has set aside not less than N25billion for redevelopment of the National Theatre, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has said.  He disclosed this while briefing journalists on the outcome of the 2019 Annual Bankers’ Committee Retreat which ended at Ogere, Ogun State yesterday.  The CBN Governor, who stated that the National Theatre was one of the issues discussed at the retreat, said the Bankers’ Committee expressed its appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for granting it permission to redevelop the Theatre, adding that the move by the lenders was in line with the President’s commitment to create 100miliion jobs in the next 10 years which translates to 10million jobs per year.  He restated that as part of the Committee’s Creative Industry Financing Initiative, Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) would, apart from redeveloping the theatre, also establish a hub around the complex that would be focused on creating jobs in the Fashion, Music, IT and Movies (Nollywood) sectors.  He said that the committee which plans to commence work at the National Theatre next month, will set up similar hubs in Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu.  Responding to a question about staff of the National Theatre being reportedly concerned that the plan will affect their jobs, Mr. Emefiele debunked such fears.  He said: “What the Bankers Committee is doing is to help revive a dead asset or an asset that is dying, that is currently not well maintained, that is not able to generate its potential earnings and revenue as a result of paucity of funds and good maintenance.”  Continuing, the CBN boss said: “We are not in the business of managing those kind of facilities. We would not, there is no attempt to side step staff of the National theatre. However, we will work with them and make sure that we put in place the maintenance culture and arrangement that will make the National theatre and the hub around it a tourist attraction not only to Nigerians but to the world. I repeat, we attend different conferences in different parts of the world, the potential that the National Theatre has or possesses is more and better than some of the conference centres we see in different parts of the world.  “We are only just trying to redevelop it again and then build around it these four hubs – music, fashion, IT and Nollywood – that will help create economic activity around the National Arts Theatre and then present it as an opportunity to create jobs for people, particularly our units,” he said.   Mr. Emefiele reiterated that the Bankers’ Committee’s take-over of the National Theatre was part of its efforts to boost job creation, especially among the youth.  He said: “We must create  jobs for our youths. A larger population of our people are youths and if they are jobless. How can they live a life? These people have certain innate skills endowed by God. We are trying to say, let them (National Theatre staff) cooperate with the Bankers Committee so that through that, they can create jobs for themselves, create job for others and generate economic activities that will improve earnings for the country. When you have an international conference holding in a place like the international art Theatre, tourism is boosted. Nigerians should please work with us to see to the redevelopment of this asset.”  The CBN Governor also revealed that due to the many benefits of the Bank Verification Number (BVN) project, the Committee resolved to introduce, “BVN 2.0”.  This, according to him, means that there will henceforth be two classifications of BVN with the fresh category dubbed “BVN Lite” aimed largely at bank customers residing in the rural areas who may not be able to supply all the information required in the current BVN enrolment form.   He said: There are people who are currently financially excluded, like people in our rural communities that carry phones, but not having financial services. With the collaboration of NCC, we are putting this BVN arrangement (BVN Lite) to allow them conduct minimal financial services.   “It should be possible for us to migrate this people into the BVN lite arrangement where they can conduct minimal financial services, not just banking services, but minimal financial services, insurance and anything you want to conduct in terms of finance whether e-payment, or anything, you can do it with the aid of your phone. Now as you bring them into the financial system, what it will do is that it will help to increase our rate of financial inclusion and reduce exclusion rate,” he added.   The CBN Governor, who also disclosed that Cybersecurity was one of the issues discussed at the Retreat , noted that while DMBs have been able to keep a firm grip on the issue, noted the risk of cybercrime was growing worldwide. So lenders in the country were advised to invest in the necessary resources and tools to tackle the menace.