The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has called for the removal of Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad as Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), for calling for an amendment of the Constitution to accommodate more Shari’a contents.  The CJN was reported to have publicly called for the amendment of the country’s constitution to accommodate some of the concerns of Muslims and the Shari’a Law and urged the academics to champion the cause of redesigning the methods of teaching Shari’a Law; discard English as the language of instruction in Shari’a Law and for a separate faculty dedicated to Shari’a  In a statement signed by the National Director, Legal and Public Affairs, Evang. Kwamkur Vondip on Saturday in Abuja, CAN raised concerns that based on recent developments; there could be ongoing plots by certain individuals including the military chiefs and the CJN, to Islamise Nigeria.   While condemning the act and noting that the CJN’s call was a threat to national unity, CAN has demanded for the implementation of the 2014 National Conference Report, to provide balance in the country.  The statement reads in part: “The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) notes that Nigerians are well aware that there are sections of the constitution which allow the implementation of Islamic Personal Law.   “CAN observes that the CJN has neither denied any of the reports attributed to him nor has he clarified it. He called for amendment to alter Nigeria’s current constitutional status to be religiously inclined toward one religion, Islam. Clearly, this looks like the path to making Islam a state religion.  “No one can begrudge the CJN from peacefully practicing his faith. But to seek to transform it into having greater space in our constitution for only one religion is the height official immodesty. CAN views this as the most reprehensible, reckless and insensitive statement made by a public officer, a jurist, the very head of Nigeria’s judiciary at that.  “Public officers, rather than see themselves in privileged positions to discharge responsibilities that promote national cohesion, dialogue, and understanding, remove suspicion and project Nigeria’s leadership, have instead turned around to be local and humdrum in their dispositions toward other parts of the country.   “Related cases are the heads of the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Air Force who chose to cite specialised universities in their home areas using the public treasury. Perhaps the CJN is reinforcing the same mentality, this time using religious self-indulgence.  “But then, we may pause and ask ourselves the following questions: are these actions by the military chiefs and the pronouncement of the CJN deliberately synchronised to promote regionalism and religious bias? Are we seeing the implementation of part of a much bigger plan to turn the country into one behemoth of a region and also one grand religion?”