Less is more with the ultra-trendy clear shoes which is also known as PVC or transparent shoes this season.  The clear shoes are everywhere from sandals, to slingbacks, to heels, to boots, it’s splashed across major magazines and Instagram feeds on repeat. Kim Kardashian West is often credited with starting the transparent-shoe trend, having first worn her Yeezy heels way back in 2016.  A see-through heel is the ultimate “nothing shoe,” a step beyond simply finding a sandal or heel that matches your skin tone, but Kardashian West isn’t the only celebrity who’s into the look.  Kristen Stewart has put her singular stamp on Chanel’s clear boots, and the likes of Rihanna, Kendall Jenner, and Bella Hadid have tried their hand at sky-high clear heal.   It’s important to note that almost all of those stylish women were photographed at night; the subversive “club shoe” isn’t exactly what you reach for when it’s time for brunch. But lately, we’ve seen more and more designers adding seethrough straps and jelly soles to their most casual styles, from By Far’s crystal-strewn mules to Roger Vivier’s barely there ballet flats.  Maryam Nassir Zadeh’s best-selling Olympia wedges have got several Vogue editors into the trend. Whether you are a fan of the trend or slightly curious about the buzz, there is something for everyone when it comes to clear shoes.  To style enthusiasts, this shoes are comfy and lightweight, you can walk all day and have the time of your life wearing it. It is ideal to pair with dresses, jeans, skirt with tops or shirt for your formal and casual outing. Bounce through the day in these shoes that will give you a smarter look and add a touch of class to your fashion sense.   TIPS zzClear shoes are basically fashionistas go to because they go with basically everything zzClear shoes when worn right can be cute, classy, gorgeous and definitely a good fashion investment every fashion conscious woman should consider having. zzEvery designer has at least one pair of sexy clear shoes in their lineup. zzThe darker take on the sandals with a tinted PVC is the shoe of the moment. zzClear shoes add a touch of gothic romance to the trend. zzThe closed toe crystal clear heels take on a more formal look. Dainty enough for a pretty number but versatile enough to wear with jeans and add a feminine touch to an outfit zzFor a more a dressier occasion, go all out with a playful dress.