Dr. Olapade Agoro, a former presidential candidate and National Chairman of the National Action Council (NAC), in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, speaks on the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections, electoral reform and 2023 presidency, among other issues  As a former presidential candidate and National Chairman of the National Action Council (NAC), what is your take on the recent governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states? You asked a question that is salient to the socio-political issues that is on ground now in Nigeria. I must let you that I am not one of those who want to live in the rough fight of the political situation of Nigeria. If that is the type of election we want in Nigeria in year 2019, then I will say leave me out of it. I felt very bad about the violence and killings that took place during the Kogi State governorship election. I felt bad that a woman, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Woman Leader was burnt to ashes with her properties because of election. How can we recover that woman burnt because of politics? You will recall that former President Goodluck Jonathan once said his election victory must not be built on the blood of anybody. With the killing of the PDP Woman leader and so many other people in Kogi and Bayelsa states in just one election, we must ask ourselves some questions: Are we animals in human skins? Do we have human blood in us? Do we have human feelings? How can someone win an election on the blood of people? That is my reaction. I don’t think it is an election one want to discuss. It is an election built on sham. With what happened in Bayelsa and Kogi, are you not worried about what lies ahead of the 2023 general election? I don’t think offering oneself for serve worth shedding of blood. Why should I kill anybody because of a dream? It is rather unfortunate that at the end of the day those who killed will also die one day.  Look at what happened to former President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, who died at the age of 93. Look at the ruin he ended up leaving Zimbabwe with. Zimbabwe is now a ruined country and dilapidated nation. So, when you talk about Africans in politics, you are talking of animals in the jungle. We have no common sense and feelings for humanity. Politics is all about service, but what do we get; you want to kill somebody else because you want to be in a position? Why should that be? Why must you believe that you must kill somebody because of ordinary position that is ephemeral? So, forget about 2023. If you don’t have today, you can’t expect to have tomorrow. We have not gotten today right, so thinking about tomorrow, we are wasting our time. But some people have already started campaigning for 2023… We are in 2019; we don’t know who will see 2020. I read something in the newspaper that made me puke. Some people are saying that the presidency of this nation should be limited to the North. That is sad. Is the presidency the property of some people? The belief that only people from a catchment area have the right to leadership is wrong. I think that may determine what we have to do with Nigeria. If I as a person cannot even dream of becoming a leader of my country; that leadership of this country has been arrogated to a catchment of an area; I think that is wrong. I think that is silly and playing God. Are you invariably saying that the North should retain the presidency in 2023? Why should it go to the North? That is the problem we have in this nation. We believe in leadership by right. If Barrack Obama, a black man could become president of United States; president of a white dominated nation, then I believe anybody should aspire to leadership anywhere in Nigeria. So, there is a need for us to sit down and call a national debate. Do we want Nigeria as a nation? If we don’t get it, then we need to decide the step we must take. Why should some people believe that leadership is their birthright just because of geographical difference? That is silly and talking nonsense. I believe God can use the youth of today to become leader tomorrow. I believe anybody can aspire to become the leader of this country any day, any time. Muhammadu Buhari became president in the last election. He is a friend and I love him, but then he should ask himself, did he win the election freely and fairly? The election was marooned with unquantifiable quantity of naira. Nobody can say this is the actual money that was spent for the election. Is Buhari leading us right? The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) cannot sit down and say this is the actual amount of money that was spent for the election. A candidate must have spent about N20 billion for one election. That is wrong, silly and madness. There is nothing to rejoice about. That is telling you that Nigeria as a nation is not meant for a poor man. Should the presidency return to the South in 2023 as being demanded by some southern leaders? I don’t believe in the idea that a president should come from a particular area. The next president of Nigeria should go to a highly qualified person. We need quality in service. We need offering of quality not offering of naira. Barrack Obama was the poorest among those who have been contesting for the presidency of the United States, but he has the determination and courage and packaged everything he can, and suddenly started gathering money from here and there. At the end of the day, he won the election. But in Nigeria, we had somebody contesting election and spending money in billions just because he wants to be a leader. What is your take on the speculation that President Buhari is seeking a third term despite the president denying it? I know Buhari and I will not allow anybody to talk evil of him. Buhari will never seek for anything called third term. He is lucky that he is even alive. You can contest election even if you are 80 years if you are still strong and healthy. During his first time in office, Buhari spent over three months in London; he went to hospital in London for treatment. Is that the man you want to say should be junketing about with a third term idea? I don’t believe Buhari is going for third term. I am sure immediately his tenure ends, Buhari will head to United Kingdom. He has a very good friend now in United Kingdom, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby. Given what happened in Kogi and Bayelsa states during the November 16 governorship polls and other previous elections under the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC, what should Nigerians expect in 2023? As far as I am concerned, INEC is what you will call Nigeria. INEC is Nigeria, where nothing good works. Let us just forget about 2023 now and reform our electoral system. I will want to say that Buhari should give us reformed electoral system. We should sit down and work things out. The noise people are making now about Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is nonsense. Buhari should call his aides and assistants to order; they shouldn’t mess up with the vice-president. Osinbajo saved this nation when Buhari was not around. He did his best for Nigeria. So, those trying to push him out should please be told to watch it. All his aides, who were sacked, should be reinstated. Osinbajo is a professor of Law, so people should not toy with him. Will you support the call for deregistration of some political parties, considering their poor performance in the last general election? As far as I am concerned, having so many political parties in Nigeria without taking care of money in politics, we are wasting our time. What will the parties do without money? The 2019 presidential election cost All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) about N50 billion. Tell me other parties, which can raise N1 billion for an election? There were 71 political parties that contested the 2019 presidential election and 69 political parties scored less than one million votes, while Buhari and Atiku had over 27million votes. That will tell you that we have not gotten it right. We are not talking about the issue of political parties; we are talking about the system. The system has been ganged up in money. We are not voting in Nigeria, we are buying votes. So, when you talk about voting, we are wasting time; people buy votes in Nigeria. The more you have, the more you can get. We have not gotten to the stage where you will have an idea of building a nation based on ideology. Which ideology do we have in our system? Buhari supported Governor Yahaya Bello in Kogi State and also supported David Lyon in Bayelsa State. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources and former Bayelsa State governor, Chief Timipre Sylva, also supported Lyon and you think Governor Seriake Dickson will prevail. The governor should have known that he was fighting a wrong battle. That is it. Buhari has decided that he has a stake in the political system of Nigeria. So, we have militarized and monitised Nigeria’s electoral process. You hail from Osun State and recently three Chinese investors were kidnapped in the state. What is your take on this ugly incident? The kidnap of the three Chinese investors and killing of a Police officer at Itagunmodi in Atakumosa area of Osun State is sad and embarrassing. Such should not be allowed to dampen the good work being done by the government of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. Rather it should be seen as a surmountable challenge with good and strategic planning. The killing of a police officer in the incident should be seen as an affront at the law enforcement agencies with evil intention to discourage and disorganise them. The work of insiders must not be ruled out to prevent further occurrence. I am happy to learn of the release of those kidnapped yet the guard should not be let loose until the State of Osun can be safety quarantined for all and sundry.