In Africa and all over the world, Ankara prints are another name for style, elegance and class.  Whatever your definition of style is, Ankara will always fit in to give you that bold, elegant and unique touch in your outfit.  Modern creative fashion designers have breathed a new life into the popular Ankara prints by designing them in short wrap dress thereby giving them official work wear looks. Short Ankara dress is one of the most versatile pieces of women’s clothing that has a truly timeless and flattering style.   It is a simple dress silhouette for women of all shapes and sizes and can be worn in so many different ways to flatter every figure type.  To achieve the most out of your Ankara wrap dress, choose the shorter version of it, interestingly Ankara wrap dress can be styled in endless ways for any occasion and any temperature.  Colourful Ankara wrap dresses are awesome; with the variety in patterns, shapes and styles you could wear a wrap dress just about anywhere.  But as awesome as they are, wrap dresses are also notorious for wardrobe malfunctions.  Although some short wrap dresses are cut to accommodate the differences in body proportions, everyone is shaped differently.  A wrap that accommodates your lower body could leave your upper body loose and vulnerable to accidental exposure.  The trick now is, rather than worry about it all day, secure the top of your dress with a pin or broach and you are good to go.  For those thinking of wearing a short wrap dress as their go-to during weight loss, weight gain or pregnancy, you are better off starting with a dress that is one size too big than a dress that is one size too small.  Wrap dresses are adaptable when it comes to size, but a small dress means you won’t have enough material to wrap around your body.  By pairing the dress with the right accent pieces, short Ankara wrap dress can appear differently from one style to another.  Day to night, work to cocktails, the wrap dress will carry you through every kind of occasion.  TIPS To keep your outfit looking office-ready, revitalize your look  with a smart pair of shoes.   The wrap dress is known for being easy to wear but the fit can be complex.   Just because it wraps around you doesn’t mean it’s the right  shape for your body.   When choosing a wrap dress always consider it for the largest  part of your body. So, if you have a large bust, make sure the dress sits there comfortably.   If the largest part of your body if your hips, ensure that the  wrap dress fits securely around there to make it appear more  flattering.   A bit of sparkle with jewellery can go a long way and is perfect  for evening wear.  With the help of a couple of accessories, you can transform your wrap dress from a day to night look.   Injecting just the right amount of glitz can dress up your wrap dress to make it sophisticated enough to wear to an event.