The Presidency has declared that no newspaper in the country has the right and power to unilaterally change the official title of President Muhammadu Buhari. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, stated this yesterday while reacting to an editorial of The Punch where the paper vowed that henceforth, they will address the President as Major General Muhammadu Buhari. Buhari held the rank of a Major General before his retirement from the Nigerian Army. The newspaper also said they will, going forward, refer to Buhari’s administration as a regime, as a symbolic demonstration of its protest against alleged “autocracy and military-style repression.” Shehu, in a statement, said that the paper lacks the right to change the President’s designation. He said it was unprecedented and absurd in the country’s recent political history to change the title of the President, noting that the paper never changed President Olusegun Obasanjo’s title from the President to General Obasanjo, despite alleged constitutional infractions by the administration. Shehu said, “The reported new editorial policy of the Punch Newspapers to address President Muhammadu Buhari as Major General in his official title and refer to his government as a regime instead of administration, comes to us as totally curious and utterly incredible. “The paper claimed that it is changing President Buhari’s official title to General because of his government’s alleged disregard for the rule of law. “Major General Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), for that is his title, and he was indeed a Major General, but today retired from that position and now twice democratically elected president of Nigeria – is not the choice of Punch Newspaper’s editors and owners, that is clear. “He is, however, the two-time electoral choice of the voters of Nigeria, those very people who Punch Newspapers described this morning as “lethargic”: a disdaining epithet apportioned to decent, hard-working, everyday Nigerians for not agreeing with, and for not having voted in line with their publication’s editorial and political opinions. “Punch’s editorial today is, however, entirely in line with holding and exercising the right of free speech and freedom of the press, as my friend and colleague, Femi Adesina, said earlier today.” The Presidential spokesman further said: “In countries around the world where this right does not exist, newspapers do not publish articles such as the one Punch did today (yesterday); nor do they get to express political opinions contrary to that of government. The exact freedoms Punch claims are missing are self-evident here – in print, on the internet – for all Nigerians and the whole world to see. “There is nothing wrong with expressing contrary opinions to this government – nor being in opposition to the president: this is the right of every Nigerian. “…It is not within the power or rights of a newspaper to unilaterally and whimsically change the formal official title or the designation of the country’s President as it pleases. “It is unprecedented and absurd in our recent political history. The Punch never changed President Olusegun Obasanjo’s title from the President to General Obasanjo, despite the latter’s refusal to comply with Supreme Court judgement, ordering him to release N30 billion of Lagos State local councils funds. “When General Ibrahim Babangida who wasn’t democratically elected assumed the title of President, why didn’t the Punch challenge him or address him by any title it so desired? “In fact, IBB closed media houses for several months and years, including Punch. “But the paper didn’t stop addressing him as President, despite the fact that he wasn’t elected. “It is obvious that the Punch newspapers are playing partisan opposition politics which has nothing to do with journalism. “The Constitution of Nigeria recognises the President as the formal official title of the occupant of that office. “Is it within the paper’s responsibility or power to change the official title of the man who occupies the office of the President? Does that mean any newspaper is free to address the Comptroller General of Customs a Colonel rather than his official title?” Shehu asked.