 K ano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, yesterday said his administration would continue to pursue economic development policy aimed at serving the people in the state. The governor gave the assurance at the Kano/Zamfara Special Day at the 40th International Trade Fair held at Kano Trade Fair Complex in the city.   Ganduje noted that; “There is a lot of commercial and economic value in creating conducive environment that responds to the needs of the people, especially those that have the talent to utilise them. “Hence in our attempt to make Kano a mega commercial city, the government had embarked on the provision of qualitative and robust infrastructure at strategic locations to create a rapid ‘transit system’ in the city,” he said. The governor, represented by his Deputy, Alhaji Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, said for the first time in history, the state had executed a gigantic development project at Kwari Market and created a market management board to modernise the largest textile market in the West African sub-region.  He said: “This government is replicating same in other selected markets, which will inevitably have positive effect on regeneration of modern business/trades in the state, especially the establishment of business clinic with a view to diagnosing various business illnesses across the state for better economic growth.”  Governor Ganduje, however, rejoiced with the success recorded by the state chamber of commerce in the last 40 years of staging what he called successful trade fair against all odds, adding that the chamber also created a strong broad-based membership that cut across the Ministry of Commerce.  He maintained that the state would continue to give all the necessary support to stimulate commercial, industrial, cooperative, solid minerals and agricultural investments in Kano and Nigeria at large. In his remarks, Zamfara State Governor, Dr. Bello Mohammed, represented by the Speaker, Zamfara State House of Assembly, Hon. Nasiru Mu’azu Magarya, said the main focus of this year’s trade fair was to draw the attention of both local and international investors to the enormous potentials available in the various parts of the country. “We are more committed to participating in fairs and exhibitions, considering the fact that our administration has carefully mapped out avenues of reviving the economy, which is emerging from years of crisis,” Bello said.