Warlords have reportedly beheaded a 17-year-old boy, Ojoko Friday, of Ndinwampfu village, Igbeagu community in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The deceased, an SS3 student of Noble Secondary School Ndiechi, Igbeagu, was returning from farm when he was murdered. The people of Igbeagu community and their neighbours at Ukelle in Yala Local Government Area of Cross River State have been at war over boundary matters. In the lingering war, many people have been killed while property worth millions of naira were destroyed. But recently, youths from both communities came together to make peace after several failed efforts by governments of the two states. The peace meeting was attended by security agents. The peace movement might have been threatened because of the schoolboy’s murder. The village head, John Ede, told our correspondent that on that Friday was coming back from the farm with his parents and siblings on December 7, 2019, when assailants ambushed them. The parents and his siblings escaped the attack, but the deceased was unlucky, as he was the only person they succeeded in capturing. Ede said the villagers had been going about their legitimate businesses since they were informed of a peace deal that was established through a peaceful negotiation by youths and elders of the two warring communities. The village head said they were persuaded to lay down their arms, that the rival Ukelle warlords had accepted to make peace, but unfortunately his people were attacked again. He said: “When the information came that members of a family from our village were attacked that evening, we informed some stakeholders that contacted the military post at Ipolo area who helped to trace the victim but found his decapitated body.” Reacting to the killing, the traditional ruler of Igbeagu Autonomous Community, His Royal Highness Eze Ogbonnaya Ukwa, called on stakeholders of Ukelle community to fish out the killers of the schoolboy and hand them over to the law enforcement agents for immediate prosecution.