I t is a few weeks to Christmas, a period to share, give and show love to people in the society.   In this regard, The Rewrite Nigeria Development Initiative (TRNDI), a non- governmental organisation (NGO), in collaboration with some companies, is set to, in its own unique way, put smile on the faces of the less-privileged children in Whitesands community, Ikorodu, Lagos State, as it holds the maiden edition of its project titled ‘12 Days of Christmas’, which began on Sunday.  Founder/President, TRNDI, Mrs Rose Egbeleye, said the project, tagged “12 days of Christmas”, is about the people living at Whitesand Community in Ikorodu.  “People visit other less-privileged homes, and the norm is that such people are given gifts and nothing ever changes. But we want to do something different and that is why we initiated ‘12 Days of Christmas’. “The idea is to spend the first 12 days of December every year with the less privileged in the society. We will spend 11 days with them and on the 12th day, there will be a charity concert. We are leveraging on Christmas because it is a time of giving,” she said.  According to Egbeleye, the objective of the NGO is to take care of children and their parents.  “One cannot touch the children lives without having a ripple effect on their parents. That’s why we have to empower these parents so that they can learn and have a better knowledge of how life should be. “Therefore, we appeal to Nigerians, corporate bodies and the entertainers to support us in this project. When entertainers and artistes go to these places, people listen to their songs because arts and entertainment are powerful tools to give hope to the hopeless. The people believe in these artistes and look up to them as mentors. We must come together as a people every year to give back to the society. This is the platform to really impact on these communities,” she said.  She explained that the NGO shares a lot of things in common with the companies that are partnering with her, adding that no one really cares about the poor. She also revealed that when she shared her passion with these people, they didn’t decline but gave their support to the project, which is targeted at ameliorating the plight of the downtrodden.  In his remark, Captain Brown of Karmond Group added that his company was poised to change the lives of people living in slums in Nigeria by providing and building decent houses for them in the same community. He disclosed that the company was in Nigeria and in other parts the world due to its passion to support such projects.  His words: “Karmond at the moment can provide good accommodation for people at a very affordable cost. We can build houses in 48 hours we will continue to support this initiative because it is a laudable one.”  Also speaking at the press conference to announce the event, the CEO, Global Concepts Limited, Wale Babajide, said that his team came up with the idea of bringing a total transformation through a collaboration with other people targeted at taking people out from the slum, which would be executed one community at a time.