Members of the organised private sector (OPS) are worried over report that the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) sub-region has started rejecting Nigerian goods, apparently as retaliation against Federal Government’s land border closure policy. Taiwo Hassan reports   In many fora, private sector groups comprising Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), National Association of Small Industries (NASI), Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) and others have made their positions known to the Federal Government on the partial closure of the country’s borders. According to them, no matter the gains assumed from the decision, it remains counter-productive to the country’s economy despite the vision by the Federal Government to promote consumption. It is on record that trade among ECOWAS countries, including Nigeria, has been in existence since the formation of the regional body in 1973, and it has brought economic fortunes to member-states, with different trade treaties meant to foster liberalisation. However, following poor implementation of the ECOWAS Trade Liberalisation Scheme (ETLS), not less than 80 per cent of West African countries do not comply with the ECOWAS protocols. Besides, over 90 per cent of Nigeria’s trade with the West African sub-region is by road. This implies that the border closure has severely affected distribution of goods within the sub-region, culminating in friction among member states. Economic implications There is no doubt that the closure of Nigerian land border for a while now has come with benefits and costs; upsides and downsides. In fact, reports so far show a drastic reduction in smuggling of rice, poultry products and sugar. The smuggling of petroleum products out of the country to neighboring countries has also declined considerably. With this in place, the private sector appreciated these outcomes. However, it is also important to reckon with the costs to local investors as they have suffered untold losses as a result of the closure. Corporates, large number of informal sector players and individuals doing legitimate businesses across the borders have become victims of the closure. This poses a dilemma. Government means well, but there are many innocent casualties. Yes, the country could be celebrating the benefits on one hand, but, there is also need to count the costs, in relation to job losses, skyrocketing prices of goods, halting of legitimate exports to the sub-region, cutting off intermediate products for some manufacturers, as well as delinking of some multinationals companies from their sister companies in the sub-region. In fact, this has brought about more harm to players involved in the movement of goods via the land border axis. Rejections Notwithstanding the revenue increase the Nigerian Customs Service claimed it has generated for the country with the closure, local exporters are also counting their losses as countries within the ECOWAS sub-region have started rejecting Nigerian cargoes, apparently as a form of retaliation against the land border closure. Latest developments, according to the exporters, indicate that the border closure is gradually crippling their businesses. Speaking in a chat with newsmen in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, Multi-mix Academy, an export oriented institution, Dr. Obiora Madu, disclosed that Nigerian exports within the ECOWAS region was decreasing due to the border closure. He said: “It is definitely impacting negatively on the economy as the exports done within the ECOWAS region and our neighboring countries are now in decrease. These countries that benefit from the open border, since we have closed it, even though we used to export to them before, you don’t expect to get the level of cooperation that we are getting before because they are hit hard by these closed borders.” He further admitted that exporting generally is becoming difficult as cargoes are now undergoing careful examinations before leaving the shores of the country. This, he said, had also impacted negatively on the volume and speed of export. “The fact is that it definitely has impact on volume, it will also impact on speed and it will not be as swift as it used to be because of scrutiny,” he noted. Revenue losses Speaking with this newspaper, the LCCI Director-General, Muda Yusuf, explained that the country was losing a lot of money as most of the country’s products have these West African nations as export destinations. To him, the complete shutdown of cross border trade between Nigeria business and their counterparts in the West sub-region is having grave consequences for investments and jobs. According to him, many industries have invested in products registered under the ECOWAS ETLS, adding that these are investors whose business models were anchored on market opportunities in the ECOWAS. He noted that these investments had been completely disrupted and dislocated. “Majority of the victims of the border closure are small businesses, most of them in the informal sector. Their means of livelihood has been put in great jeopardy. This class of traders does not have the capacity to move their products by sea because of the modest scale of their operations. Supply chain of some business has been completely disrupted. “Maritime sector investors have been denied opportunities offered by transit cargo destined for landlocked countries which normally comes through the Nigerian ports. The closure has triggered an unprecedented hike in prices with a devastating impact on the poor,” he said. Why close borders Indeed, Nigeria became the latest African nation to close its borders, following similar actions by Kenya, Rwanda and Sudan in recent months. The borders have been closed for various reasons including diplomatic disputes, security concerns, health precautions and economic considerations among others. The closure, especially by Africa’s biggest economy, Nigeria, is a slap in the face of continent’s integration efforts. The recently signed African Continental Free Trade Area agreement provides for free movement of goods and persons across African countries. However, findings have shown that economic gains and trade dominance are the reasons behind the closure of borders in Africa. Last line The private sector insisted that the rejection of goods from Nigeria by ECOWAS states will definitely take a large slice dip off the country’s revenue generation and the GDP in general.