Managing Director, Julius Berger Nigeria Plc,  Dr. Lars Richter, was at the  weekend,  awarded the Fellowship of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors, FNIQS. He was represented by the company’s Director of Corporate Development, Mr. Tobias Meletschus. The Western Regional Manager of the company in Lagos, Mr. Alexander Bauer, also bagged the NIQS Fellowship at the same event. A former Governor of Bauchi State and a fellow of the NIQS, Alhaji Ahmadu Adamu Mu’azu, described  Julius Berger Nigeria Plc  as a  highly professional  organisation which has been  central to   infrastructural development, particularly   the roads sector in Nigeria. Mu’azu, who was Chairman of the Investiture ceremony, recalled his encounter with Julius Berger when he was the Governor of Bauchi State. “I am full of gratitude to the Institute, our Institute, the Institute I belong to for this unique event. I congratulate all the recipients of the NIQS Fellowship, especially the MDs and CEOs of the construction companies for their awards which they rightly deserve. “I recall a case in point to underline what I mean. When I was Governor of Bauchi State, I wanted to construct good roads for the State. I stressed myself and drove all the way to Abuja to Julius Berger to see the then MD of the company. I think he was Mr. Marks (who is presently the Vice Chairman of Julius Berger). I got there and filled the visitor’s form and waited to see him. When we eventually met in his office, I introduced myself and told him I wanted good roads for Bauchi. He was very delighted, and professionally so. I am delighted to say that Julius Berger did a very great job in Bauchi. They should and must continue their good works as they remain central to road infrastructural development in this country. Other construction companies in this country should be doing same,” Muazu said. President, Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors,  Obafemi Oluwole Onashile,  said the Investiture events were strategies designed to expand the coast of the NIQS as “the success of contractors and their companies is always in the interest of the NIQS.” He said that the status of the awardees at the event was a statement being deliberately made by the Institute to show that they are major players in that direction. Onashile explained that the readiness of Julius Berger, and others to share in the vision of the NIQS  in the areas of employment and training of Quantity Surveyors is commendable. “They have always discussed with us on how to improve efficiency in our professional practice. They are ready to collaborate with us in these areas. These among others informed their respective selection for the award of our NIQS Fellowship to them,” he said. Chairman of the NIQS Fellows Forum,  Anthony Ndah,  eulogised  Julius Berger Nigeria Plc for its contributions to the construction industry in Nigeria. “Julius Berger’s constant contribution to development and support for NIQS remains insurmountable.  Fellowship of the Institute is the highest gratitude we have for all who identify with the aspirations of the NIQS,” he said. Other Fellowship awardees at the NIQS Investiture ceremony included the  CEO/Managing Director of Cappa and D’Alberto PLC, Mr Giovanni Mello Grand and  the Group Managing Director of ITB Nigeria. Also, no fewer than 50 other members of the Institute were awarded the NIQS Fellowship at the event. The NIQS Fellowship Investiture ceremony was attended by the Institute’s members across the country. It was preceded by the NIQS 2019 Annual General Meeting held at same venue.