Philip Nyam reports on how the House of Representatives conducted a public hearing and passed the finance bill in less than two weeks   T he House of Representatives kept to its promise by passing the finance bill last Thursday. The report of the committee on finance on the bill was laid same day and considered immediately at the committee of the whole. The bill titled: “A bill for an act to amend the companies income tax act, value added tax, customs and excise tariff etc. (Consolidation) act, personal income tax act, capital gains tax act, stamp duties act and petroleum profit tax act to provide for the review of tax provisions and make them more responsive to tax reform, and for related matters,” is an executive proposed legislation.   Part of the amendments approved in the bill by the House according to the chairman of the House committee on media and public affairs, Hon. Benjamin Kalu, is the stripping of the Nigerian Postal Commission (NIPOST) of the responsibility of collecting N50 stamp duties and transferring it to Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS).   The N50 one-off stamp duty, however, exempts all electronic receipts or transfer of money deposited in any bank or with any banker, on any type of account, to be accounted for amounting from N10,000 upwards except monies paid into one’s account or transferred electronically between accounts of the same owners by the owner within the same bank.   The House also approved the increase of Value Added Tax (VAT) from five to 7.5 per cent. On sanction, the bill provides that a taxable person who fails or refuses to register with FIRS within the time specified in the bill shall be liable to pay N50,000 fine for the first month and N25,000 for each subsequent month of default.   “Where a taxable person permanently ceased to carry on a trade or business in Nigeria, the taxable person shall notify the Service of its intention to deregister for tax purposes within 90 days of such cessation of the trade or business.   “Nonresident company is also under obligation to be taxed on invoice for the supply of taxable services while the person to whom the services are supplied in Nigeria shall withhold and remit tax directly to the Service in the currency of payment.   “Any taxable person who fails to notify the Service of a change of address of business or trade shall be liable to fine of N50,000 for the first month and N25,000 for subsequent month of default.  “Any taxable person who fails to submit returns shall be liable to a fine of N50,000 for the first month and N25,000 for subsequent month of default,” the bill provides.   On the amendment to the Customs and Excise Tariff, etc (Consolidation), Act, the bill provides: “Goods manufactured in Nigeria and specified in the Fifth Schedule to this Act shall be charged with duties of Excise at the rate specified under the Duty Column.”  It also provides that goods imported and those manufactured in Nigeria shall be charged with duties of Excise at the specified rates in the Duty Column.  The provision is aimed at protecting local industries and to make their prices competitive, while avoiding double taxation. The Companies Income Tax amendment also affects real estate investment companies, dividend, interest, rent or royalty paid by companies. Section 23 of the report however exempts profits of any company being a statutory or register friendly society in so far as such profits are not derived from a trade or business carried on by such society.  Others include profits by a cooperative society, profits of any company engaged in ecclesiastical, charitable or educational activities of a public character, company sponsoring sporting activities and profits generated by registered trade unions.  In a bid to encourage diversification of the economy, the bill also provides for incentives for “any company engaged in agricultural production and processing in addition to other incentives. An initial tax free period of five years which may be subject to satisfactory performance of the agricultural business be renewed for an additional maximum period of five years.”  The public hearing  Before the House passed the bill on November 28, it held a public hearing on November 25, where stakeholders were invited to make inputs. While declaring opened the exercise, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila stated that the Tax and Fiscal Law (amendment) Bill before the National Assembly would determine the nation’s capacity to fund the 2020 Appropriation Act.  He said: “The Tax and Fiscal Law (Amendment) Bill which we have gathered here to consider and to contribute to, will determine amongst other things, our ability as a nation to fund the 2020 budget, meet the obligations of government and implement policies to build infrastructure, tackle insecurity, grow the economy, and provide jobs that pay a living wage and lift families out of poverty.  “It is an important piece of legislation, deserving of thorough consideration, and reasoned debate by the parliament of the people, acting in the best interests of the people. We have a responsibility as legislators to meticulously review and examine every aspect of this bill to ensure that we produce a legislative document that is clear in its objectives, thoughtful in the mandates it imposes and reflective of the best aspirations of all our citizens.”  On her part, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, explained that the Financial Bill 2019 seeks to promote fiscal equity by mitigating instances of regressive taxation; reform domestic tax laws to align with global best practices and introduce tax incentives for investments in infrastructure and capital markets.  She said the bill also seeks to support small businesses in line with ease of doing business reforms and raise revenues for government, by various fiscal measures, including a proposed increase in the rate of VAT from five to 7.5 per cent, while the Petroleum Profit Tax (PPT) seeks to improve revenue by removing the tax exemption granted for dividends or income received from companies charged under PPT.  In his intervention, Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr. Babatunde Fowler, informed lawmakers that over 40,000 registered businesses do not pay requisite taxes in Nigeria.   Chairman, Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS) of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Paul McGrath, argued that stiff business environment left Nigeria with only three per cent out of the $73 billion of major project investments in Africa from 2015 to 2019.  According to him, OPTS represents 29 independent, indigenous and international E&P companies which operate about 90 per cent of the oil and gas production and have invested on average $15 billion per year in Nigeria over the last five years with significant benefits to the economy.  He, however, acknowledged that some sections of the composite bill seeking to reform the tax regime by amending several acts, namely Petroleum Profit Tax Act (PPT), Custom and Excise Tax Act, Company Income Tax Act (CITA), Personal Income Tax Act, Value Added Tax Act, Stamp Duties Tax Act, and Capital Gains Act, are geared toward encouraging small to medium companies flourish and also digitalize communications, especially the exemption of small to medium companies from VAT, as well as a 1-2 per cent bonus for medium-sized and large companies that pay their income tax liability early under the CITA.  He observed that certain provisions in the composite bills such as the proposed increase from 7.5 to 10 per cent withholding tax on dividends paid out of petroleum profits, which he argued “represents another layer of tax on the pre-existing 85 per cent petroleum profit tax rate will erode investment and investors’ confidence.  While cautioning against policy somersault, he observed that when Section 60 of PPTA was put in place, it was widely understood that Nigeria’s PPT rate of 85 per cent was very high when compared to other countries. “Therefore, the exemption of dividend payments from withholding tax was put in place to reduce the burden caused by the high tax rate,” he said.  He maintained that the additional tax will further erode returns on investment and will have a negative impact on Nigeria’s attractiveness as an investment destination, to the advantage of other countries, adding that the proposed hike will in the “short-term increase in revenue from all these provisions puts at risk Nigeria’s ability to sustain its current production through new investments.  “Without new projects, Nigeria’s production will be subject to a 15 per cent annual natural decline,” he said.  On the other hand, he urged that the proposal be removed from the Bill, and instead considered within the wider context of a Petroleum Industry Bill, so that its full implications for all stakeholders can be assessed and decided upon.   Speaking on the proposed 7.5 per cent VAT rate as contained in Sections 35 & 38 of the bill, McGrath kicked against the imposition of VAT on invoices and similar transactions which he stressed will “widen the operating expenses base, thus, increasing industry operational costs.  “Again, OPTS recommends the adoption of globally-accepted industry practice of exempting intra-company at cost services,” he said.  Despite the laudable objectives of the Nigeria Economic Reform Growth Plan (ERGP) aimed at building a competitive economy through improving the Nigerian business environment, he maintained that one of the proposed amendments would defeat this objective.  “It is noteworthy that total contributions from our operations have consistently constituted over 70 per cent of government revenue and 90 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange. This translates to cumulative $425 billion contribution to Nigeria’s revenue between 2007 and 2018,” he observed.  On her part, President/Chairman, Chattered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), observed that most of the provisions that the bills seeks to amend have become obsolete in terms of global practice and have become practically difficult to implement in the Nigerian context.  According to her, “these have given rise to many loopholes that are exploited in widening the tax avoidance gap in Nigeria.”  The institute also commended the proposed amendment to the excise duties on goods imported for export oriented activities, just as it called for careful definition of the “range of products so charged as part of strategies targeted at aiding the country’s migration from net-importer to export-oriented nation.”   With the expeditious passage of the bill, it is expected that President Muhammadu Buhari will assent to it immediately it is forwarded to him by the National Assembly.