  …insists on restructuring  •Says Igbo has right to presidency   •You’re wasting your time –AYCF   A pex Yoruba Socio cultural organisation, Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG), through its National Publicity Secretary Yinka Odumakin, has said that Nigeria cannot afford to continue with the current arrangement where every state takes directives from Abuja, insisting that the polity must be restructured for Nigeria to be developed.  Afenifere was reacting to the recent statement credited to the Chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) Prof Ango Abdullahi, that the Forum would support a candidate of Northern extraction to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023.   In an exclusive interview with Sunday Telegraph, Odumakin did not only condemn the stance of the Forum, but said if Nigeria had been restructured before the 2015 elections, she would had been spared the turmoil it is passing through today.   He said: “He is only blabbing. What he is saying makes no sense at all. In 2014, when they were shouting that it was their turn, it was their turn, it was their right to be in the presidency of the nation, they had their way. If they had allowed the restructuring of Nigeria then, we would not be going through this route again. If they insist that they will produce the president in 2023, let them go about it on their own.   “It is very correct that the South East is yet to produce the president of this country since 1999, they have a right to it. Last week we were in a function in Delta State, with other notable Igbo sons. We were discussing and they said that they do not want a Hausa with Igbo name. If we do not restructure Nigeria, it will not be in the interest of anybody. If we should continue with the way we are, they will go and bring somebody and give him an Igbo name, they will not take it, a  president that would only kowtow to the North or do the biddings of Abuja, Nigeria cannot make any head way. That is what Ango Abdullahi and their likes want. That you will go and bring one Chukwuma or Iloanusi and will be answerable to the North, we will not tolerate it.  “What we stand on is that in 2023, the presidency must come to the South. Whether it comes to the South or not, Nigeria must be restructured. If we do not, there will be no progress.   “Southern leaders and Middle Belt Forum which comprises of South West, South East, South South and the Middle Belt, have all resolved that there must be restructuring and we do not want a situation where a section of the country will be lording it over others. If we rotate the presidency and every section spends a month each, without restructuring, we are heading nowhere.”  Also weighing in on the issue, President Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF), Yerima Shettima said it is nothing new.  Hear him: “What the acting chairman of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) said is not different from what I have told you in the past. Was I not the one who started it? And do you think I would say something I was not sure of? It is not possible. That is why I advised that any political party that makes the mistake of putting any Southerner as a candidate is wasting its time. The North will massively go one way. So every party should put Northern candidate to balance the story, otherwise, if you put any other tribe, it will be different.   “The issue of rotational president had already been jettisoned before now by former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2011. If Buhari succeed to complete his second tenure, it means the North only had nine years and the South had 15 years from 1999 till date.   “Former President Olusegun Obasanjo had eight years of uninterrupted administration. Umaru Yar’Adua had only one year, the second year he was sick and Jonathan acted for one year. And within the two years of Yar’Adua’s demise then, they created this issue of doctrine of necessity that made Jonathan to become substantive president for another two years. Yar’Adua had only one year and Jonathan had three years of the administration.   “When some of us came out to say it is important they allowed a Northern candidate to emerge through the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform so that the North can also complete the Yar’Adua’s administration, and the Northern administration by extension, people raised eyebrows, saying it is not constitutional and there was nothing like agreement and that it is the right of every Nigerian to contest. That was how the issue of rotational presidency was jettisoned.   “If we are talking about justice, we (North) never got justice from Nigerians. The South had occupied the presidency from 1999 till date for 15 years. Even if Buhari finishes next three years, we only had nine years. Can we compare nine to 15 years? Even if we are given 2023 ticket freely without opposition, you will realise that we only have 13 years, we have not even made up to the 15 years. But, however, let us just have one more shot.”   