…grid restored after collapses hit 13 times in the year  Major parts of Nigeria were y e s t e r d a y plunged into five hours of blackout as the 58-year old National Transmission System also known as national grid suffered a collapse, again, for the second time in three days. The collapse, which occurred around 1:09 PM on Friday, was the 13th system failure between January 1 and December 13, 2019. Though the grid was, according to checks by Saturday Telegraph, restored at about 18:01 hours on Friday, the major parts of the country were thrown into blackout for over four hours that the restoration works were being carried out by engineers from the Transmission Comoany of Nigeria (TCN). One of the 11 power distribution companies, the Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), however, confirmed the collapse on its Twitter handle on Friday. “Dear Customer, at exactly 1309hrs we experienced another system collapse affecting parts of the country. TCN team is working to restore supply. Please, bear with us as we expect supply soon,” the utility company said. The Electriciry Company of Nigeria (ECN) in 1961 – 58 years ago – completed a 132 KV transmission line linking Lagos to Ibadan via Shagamu, in 1965, this line was extended to Oshogbo, Benin and Ughelli to form the Western System. The phones of the Managing Director of TCN, Usman Gur Mohammed, and Spokesperson for the company, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, rang out when our correspondent called them to seek clarifications on the collapse. A source at the company told this newspaper that the partial collapse may not be the last for the year. This, he said, was because the incessant collapses experienced by the grid were caused majorly by the obsolete nature of the national installation. “The grid was constructed over 50 years ago and since then it lacked major engineering Turn Around Maintenance (TAM). Asides the on-and-off partial maintenance, the grid will need a total overhaul to end the incessant collapse,” he said. The Electricity Consumer Protection Forum had also blamed the incessant collapse of the national grid on obsolete power transmission and distribution equipment across the country. Its National Coordinator, Mr Adeola Samuel- Ilori, made the assertion in an interview. Samuel-Ilori said that the electricity end users were, according to Samuel-Ilori, the worst hit by the epileptic power supply as they had to spend their hard earned resources in seeking for alternative power supply to their homes and businesses. “The frequent collapse of the grid, these days, are factors of many things which include obsolete lines, materials still in place and non-investment in that area. “The Transmission Company of Nigeria should be asked why such equipment is not replaced despite the intervention funds supplied by the African Development Bank (AfDB),’’ he said. According to him, the …grid restored after collapses hit 13 times in the year privatisation process has not yielded the desired result due to the non-performance of the transmission and distribution layers as well as their failure to invest in equipment. He said that the Forum just received a complaint from a community in Ifako- Gbagada, saying that their transformer, which recently packed up, is 30 years old. “Yet, the distribution company is not ready to invest in buying another one. “Such obsolete transformers can do wrong feedback which may lead to grid collapse and we have many of them like that across the country,’’ Samuel-Ilori said.