Alhaji Balarabe Musa was governor of old Kaduna State in the Second Republic. He speaks in this interview with Felix Nwaneri on the state of the nation and the need for Nigerians to liberate themselves from the grip of the ruling class  What is your assessment of the recent governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states? The elections were the worst that we have so far experienced, but we are going to continue to experience such in future elections unless something is done urgently. Who would you blame for the ugly experience; the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies or the political parties? The blame should be on the system itself because it was money and power that decided the outcome of the two elections. The violence, malpractices and other forms of irregularities that characterised the elections were as a result of money and power. Reacting to the outcry by the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the election, President Muhammadu Buhari advised the party to seek redress ion court. Do you see his advice as the best way of curbing the worrisome trend? The President adopted that approach because his party was declared the winner of the two elections. They made sure that they were declared winner by any means and when those who were dissatisfied with the process protested; they said ‘go to court.’ They know that even if you go to court, they will take care of what will come out of the court, using money and power. What does this worrisome trend in the electoral process portend for Nigeria’s democracy? We are just deceiving ourselves; we have never had democracy. We have only had democratic aspiration, but we never had democracy. Democracy means more than what we have today. Democracy means the supremacy of the will of the people as demonstrated in the conduct of free, fair and transparent elections. Have we ever had that? Some people will say that Nigeria experienced free, fair and transparent elections under the Prof. Attahiru Jega-led INEC… Anyone who says that is deceiving him or herself because we’ve never had free, fair and transparent elections and there is no future for Nigeria until we do the right thing. We must ensure that there are free, fair and transparent elections that will lead to legitimate administrations at all levels of government. To ensure this, we must have a situation, where the voter freely decides the fate of political parties and their candidate during elections without being financially induced. How feasible is that given the role money has played in the country’s elections of late? We have to insist on that because other countries had the same problem at one time or the other, but they dealt with it and they now have peace, unity and progress. Issues were raised about the card read after the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections and INEC even admitted that the card reader was circumvented by some politicians. Does this mean that the card reader has outlived its usefulness? In the first place, the card reader was designed by those who are interested in winning elections at all cost. In any case, was the card reader used everywhere during the 2019 elections? I will tell you that it was not used everywhere because I voted without being accredited with the card reader and my polling unit was in an urban area. If the election took place in such an area without the card reader, you can then imagine what happened in the rural areas. I raised this issue then even before the media, but nothing was done about it. Would you then suggest that the card reader should be jettisoned in future elections? The issue is not the card reader itself; the problem is that everything about our elections is now decided by power and money and those in control of power use it to ensure that they are returned to office by any means. That means you share the views of former President Goodluck Jonathan, who said that politicians are resorting to electoral coups to remain in power? Didn’t Jonathan and others before him superintend over similar elections? We’ve been witnessing such elections under successive administrations, so we shouldn’t waste our time listening to people like Jonathan, Olusegun Obasanjo and Ibrahim Babangida because they are responsible for the negative state of the nation and they are directly benefitting from that negative state. But the question is: As Nigerians; are we prepared to protect our interest by any means or we want to remain as slaves forever? When you say Nigerians should protect their interest by any means, are you joining those calling for revolution? I said by any means because that was what citizens of other countries did to liberate themselves. Countries like the United States, Britain, Russia, China and Germany, among others, didn’t get to where they are now by sitting down and wishing it. They sat down and prepared to go the whole hog for their freedom, which in turn, guaranteed their progress. Do you see that happening in a complex nation like Nigeria? Forget about that. Is Nigeria more complex that any of these countries that I just mentioned yet they sat down and insisted on democracy and national unity. Let’s go back to history; how did the countries of Europe – Britain, Germany and France, among others secure the right of the people to elect their representatives in their respective parliaments? Was that move not opposed by the monarchy that held sway then, but the people insisted on the right of the people to elect their representatives. In America, where there was no monarchy, the people had to fight slavery and British colonialism, and they used all means. So, you can see that there is no country that is free now that didn’t pass through what Nigeria is experiencing at the moment, but they sat down and used all means to get to where they are presently. Do you know how China became a Peoples Republic in 1949? Did they just sat down and celebrated those who opposed the people’s freedom? No! They did what was required. So, we have to also do what is required. We have to it because Nigeria has virtually reached the end of the road. Nothing is working in Nigeria. Law and order no longer work; what is working now is balance of terror and you can see that clearly. Even soldiers, policemen and personnel of other security agencies that are supposed to protect the people are being killed in their numbers these days. What is working in Nigeria today is balance of terror or what one will equally describe as bureaucratic anarchy, waiting for social anarchy to come about. Remember how Somalia got to where it is today. Today, nobody can stand up in that country because anything can happen at any time. Are you saying that we will not reach to that level? No, we will reach there unless something is urgently done to stop Nigeria’s continued slide to anarchy. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is likely to disagree with you that Nigeria is on the road to Somalia… Forget about the APC and the other opposition parties because they are the same. All the 91 political parties in Nigeria are the same except the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) because of the party’s commitment to socialist reconstruction of Nigeria, starting with the leading role of the government in the economy to ensuring peace, justice, equality and even development of the country. This makes PRP unique, but the party is ignored because it doesn’t have money. Why is it that the media don’t take on the parties, analyze what the stand for and present them before the people? The issue is that parties come with great ideas, but most times a different thing is seen when they get to power… But that was not the case when the PRP came to power in Kaduna State in 1979. Didn’t you see the difference during the four years PRP was in power in Kaduna State? For instance, immediately we were sworn-in on October 1, 1979, we identified that the poor state of the education sector as the fundamental problem of Nigeria and Kaduna State in particular. In terms of educational development, we identified that there was a forty years gap between the North and the South, and we Kaduna State committed ourselves to bridging that gap in 20 years. We planned to reach the level of educational development of Oyo State, which was the number one in the country then within 20 years and we started the journey from day one by increasing the number of secondary schools in Kaduna State from 100 to 200. Was there any state government that adopted such a revolutionary step then? Why is the media ignoring that? I know that it is in the interest of other parties to ignore that, but why is the media also doing so? Within four years, we built 13 roads that linked the various local government areas of the state; we built 13 small scale industries that all started production, but later packed up because those who took over from us messed up everything. What is your take on the threat by the PDP to pull out of future elections given what happened during the November 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states? What is the difference between APC and PDP? The PDP is even worst and that was why in 2015, they preferred not to win the presidential election. They sabotaged themselves in different ways because they preferred the APC to take over from them, knowing very well that APC will not last in power and that Nigerians would end up, saying that PDP should come back. That is what is happening in Nigeria today. Today, in terms of governorship, representation at the state and national Assembly as well as administration at the local government level, what is the difference between APC and PDP? They are neck-to-neck. In 2015, PDP knew that if they continue to stay in power, there would be a social revolution that will wipe them out, so they preferred to defeat themselves. Their strategy was to allow APC, which they knew will not hold on to power for long to take over and they took over, knowing that after some time, people will start saying that even PDP was better, which is happening today. Do you see the social revolution, which you said the PDP averted, happening given the way things are with the APC-led government? Of course, it will happen because Nigerians are fed up with the present negative state of the nation and there will come a time, when the people will not take that any more. And you know that history has proved that slaves never remain as slaves forever; one day slaves will rise up to free themselves. In Europe and America, didn’t people fight against slavery, totalitarianism, monarchy and colonialism? Even in our history in Nigeria, didn’t we fight colonialism and saw to the end of it? What is the difference between what is happening now and during feudal times; the days of the emirs and chiefs, during the days of British colonialism and during the days of military dictatorship? Some years ago, a farmer can survive on the income he makes from his farm produce and still have some to spare. Is there any farmer who can do that now except the big thieves, who have big and mechanized farms? Until the military came in 1966, a farmer anywhere in Nigeria survived on income from his farm and even had something to spare. When I started work in 1953, it was messengers who helped us out before we received our first salary. The salary of a messenger then was enough to sustain him and his family, and there was even something left to help others. I started work as a clerk in 1953, but coming to city for the first time, I borrowed money from a messenger in order to survive, pending when I received my first salary. I didn’t borrow from a permanent secretary, but a messenger. Even when I was the governor of Kaduna State, you would be surprised to know how much I spent to take care of myself and my family. If I remember correctly, I spent about N6,000 monthly because I have a small family – myself, three children and two domestic staff. How did the nation get it wrong and why is that President Buhari seems to be finding it difficult to reverse the trend despite the promises he made? Things have gone from bad to worse and you will be deceiving yourself if you rely on those promises. Find out the reality on ground and compare it to the promises and you will realize that the promises were lies and deception. Despite the picture you’ve painted about Nigeria, some politicians have kick-started the campaign for the 2023 elections… What they are doing is all about gambling with the future of Nigeria and her over 180 million people. So, let us wait for the worst to happen or we stand up and prevent the worst from happening. The people of other nations, at a time in their respective histories, witnessed what we are experiencing now, but they stood up and freed themselves. So, it is left for us to stand up and liberate ourselves. Do you see liberation coming through the ballot? We know the reality, so let us not deceive ourselves. We know the level of poverty in Nigeria at the moment; the level of insecurity is clear; the level of dominance by the ruling class is clear; the level of looting of our common wealth is clear; the level of domination of our economy by a few imperialists is clear. All these negative indices are clear, so let us stand up and solve the problems by whatever means if we are people worth our names. When you say by whatever means; some people called for revolution and the state moved against them and they are still in detention? Those who freed the countries of Europe and America; was that not what they did? Why can’t we do that? Are you not worried that the Hate Speech Bill that is pending in the Senate is part of the plot to gag Nigerians from speaking truth to power? That is part of the plan by the ruling class to put opposition in check, so that it can remain in power. But, such did not start today. Even in feudal and monarchical times, those who advocated for freedom of speech and expression were arrested and shot. Even the religious bodies collaborated with the authorities by describing those advocates as heretics. So, those who are opposed to the Hate Speech Bill should know that there is a price to pay, but I will advise them not to give up. How can a government that claims to obey the rule of law think of gaging the people with what it describes a Hate Speech Law, when the constitution provides for freedom of speech? We know the plan; the ruling class wants to remain in power, so opposition should not be tolerated and that is the reason for the Hate Speech Bill. What are your thoughts on the rumoured third term plan for the President, which he has come out to disclaim? What is strange about it? Haven’t we seen in the past, a man that wants to perpetuate himself in power, kick-starting the plot by organising groups to campaign for him to be given a third term.