The Abia State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ene Okon, yesterday, debunked allegation that his officer killed a woman trader while attempting to extort commercial cyclists in the state. The victim, identified as Kasarachi, was a fruit seller at the Apumiri Market. Okon, while narrating how the incident happened, said that he got the information through a phone call moments after he returned from Abuja. He had immediately called the Officer in Charge of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), in Ubakala. Okon said: “I received the brief to the effect that there was a distress call at the dustbin area of Ubakala and then SARS operatives attached to Ubakala, responded to the distress call and discovered that robbers, numbering about five, using a Toyota RAV4 and in army camouflage, were operating. On sighting the SARS men, the gang opened fire and the SARS operatives retaliated. During the exchange of gunfire, a stray bullet hit the victim, who was rushed to the hospital and was confirmed dead.” Okon said the Toyota Sienna van used by the SARS operatives was riddled with bullets.  According to him: “There was nothing like an accidental discharge or direct firing at the victim.” The CP disclosed that he has constituted a panel to investigate the circumstances that led to the death of the victim. This was even as he disclosed that the matter happened the previous night. However, an eyewitness alleged that the deceased was killed by SARS men, who were attempting to extort cyclists. The eyewitness explained that some of the cyclists would be arrested and detained, then asked by the SARS men to bail themselves  with N30,000 or N50,000. The eyewitness noted that it was in the process of extorting the commercial motorcycle operators that one of the policemen fired the bullet that killed Kasarachi. The eyewitness noted: “She was returning from a nearby filling station where she had gone to pack her wares at the end of the day’s business when she was hit by the bullet. There was no robbery at all. We saw what happened and we can identify the policeman that pulled the trigger.”