Exposure to levels of ozone and other forms of pollution could take a toll on a person’s health. The impact of such pollution on lung disease, particularly, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), in the United States (U.S) were the findings of two studies led by Johns Hopkins. In one study, published on December 9 in the ‘JAMA Internal Medicine,’ Johns Hopkins researchers found that, among other effects, long-term ozone exposure could increase the risk of lung disease and the severity of that disease among both former and current smokers. Similarly, the second study, published on December 9 in the “American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine,’ by Johns Hopkins researchers also found that increased neighborhood use of wood as a primary heating source, which releases fine particles into the air was associated with higher prevalence of lung disease among never-smokers in the community. Author of both studies, Dr. Nadia Hansel, M.D. said: “Even if you spend very little time outside, the cumulative effect of pollution over many years seems adequate to have a negative impact on respiratory health.” Hansel is the director of the pulmonary and critical care division, professor of medicine and associate dean for research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Ground-level, or tropospheric, ozone is formed when industrial pollutants interact with sunlight, and it is the main ingredient in the smog found around major cities. Ozone is known to irritate the lungs by increasing inflammation, and spikes of very high ozone levels -; such as those that occur on hot, sunny days with heavy traffic could exacerbate lung diseases such as asthma. Former and current smokers are at high risk of chronic lung diseases and are particularly susceptible to environmental triggers for lung disease flare-ups. Furthermore, smokers are particularly prone to COPD, a group of diseases including emphysema and chronic bronchitis, characterised by chronic and progressive lung inflammation that leads to shortness of breath and coughing.