The Bauchi State High Court 5, Presided over by Justice Aliyu Baba Usman, has sentenced Umaru Muhammadu Jauro Ori, to death by hanging for killing his father inside a mosque in Mai’aduwa Village of Misau Local Government Area. Delivering judgement yesterday, Usman said he had listened to the prosecutor, Hussein Ishaq Magaji and the defense counsel led by Barrister Chukwumeka Ikwazu carefully. He said: “The death of the victim was as a result of the act of the accused and the prosecution counsels has proved their case beyond reasonable doubt. I found the accused culpable of homicide punishable with death under Section 221 of the Bauchi State Laws. I hereby sentenced him to die by hanging.” Magaji told the court that the covict went into a mosque in Mai’aduwa Village and stabbed his father on the head with a machete. The man sustained severe injuries. He was rushed to the Misau General Hospital, where he died the following day. The convit pleaded not guilty to the offence during trial. The prosecution counsel brought 10 witnesses in separate statements recorded by the Police during investigation. Before the court, younger brother of the deceased, Umar Mohammed Jatau, 70, and Junior brother of the Ibrahim Muhammadu Jauro Ori, 26, stated that the convict had problem with their father and siblings. The witnesses said the deceased gave each of them farm and after that, Umaru left the village for over 10 months. Nobody knew his whereabouts until the day he returned, stormed the mosque during prayers and stabbed his father on the head with a machete. It was further gathered that youths in the community chased and caught him. He was taken to the nearest police station, while his father was taken to the nearest hospital, where he died. The old man was later buried according to Islamic rites. The convict in his statement said he had a wife and three children. He said that he killed his father for separating him and his wife. He said that he stayed in the city for so long, that his father divorced his wife on his behalf. He said that right now, he had no wife.  He further stated that his father also separated him from his two brothers. Umaru admitted that when he returned, he took a machete and entered the mosque and stabbed his father on the head. He said that when his father fell, he ran away and was pursued and caught by youths in the community. He said: “The youths beat me mercilessly and injured my right fingers. We took our father to hospital and he died while receiving treatment. I have never killed a human being before. I’m not an armed robber. This is my first time of killing a human being. I ask for pardon.”