The Olympic Games with a circle of four years remain the biggest sporting event in the world. It is also important to emphasise that the final of the athletics 100m is almost always the climax of every Olympic Games. Over the years, the competition has evolved in many ways. For example, football for men and women were added but it has not removed the shine for the ‘major’ attraction of the games, which is athletics.  That was why Micheal Johnson, Carl Lewis, Maurice Greene and just recently Usain Bolt made their names as Olympic legends and not much is heard about the consistent and amazing athletes in other sports like wrestling, weightlifting, taekwondo, tennis, table tennis, etc.  American swimming sensation, Micheal Phelps, cannot be forgotten easily because of his amazing run in the swimming event while Cuban boxer Felix Savon cannot be forgotten as well but no doubt, athletics steals the show at the games. Nigeria’s all-time record at the games is not encouraging.  Despite the talents in various sports, Nigeria on many occasions goes to the games and returns with nothing. Nigeria has her strong and weak areas in athletics but, sadly, the country is yet to maximize the advantage of the strong areas, especially the sprints. Overall, Nigeria has won three gold, 10 silver and 12 gold medals.  The total medal haul of 25 is not a true reflection of the talents in the country.  Athletics alone has won two gold, five silver and six bronze medals. In one Olympic Games, many countries perform better than Nigeria’s overall haul at the games. Sad enough, after every competition, the authorities will come out to say the preparation for the next games will start immediately but as usual, the country ends up with ad-hoc arrangements for the games.  At the last games in Rio, Brazil, Nigeria won only a bronze medal courtesy of the U-23 men’s football team led by Samson Siasia. Four years earlier, at the London 2012 Games in England, Nigeria failed to win a medal.  As we gradually enter another Olympic year, 2020, the signs of preparations are not evident and this is rather sad.  The Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, spoke about his intention to assist some elite athletes prepare well and be at their best for the games but so far the preparation which was supposed to have started over two years ago is not evident. Some top athletes are good enough to make the podium based on their current form. Long jumper, Ese Brume, won a bronze medal only recently at the IAAF World Championship.  With a personal best of 7.05m, the three time African championship gold medallist is good for medals in Tokyo if well motivated with her preparation. Hurdler, Tobi Amusan, narrowly missed the bronze medal at the Worlds but with her 12.49 seconds personal best recorded earlier this year, the 2018 Commonwealth Games gold medallist is also good enough for the podium. She is also a member of the 4x100m relay team.  Divine Oduduru, one of the most consistent sprinters this year, could explode at the Tokyo Games if well monitored. His PB of 9.86 secs recorded this year can earn him 100m medal if he is able to maintain or better it at the games.  In wrestling, Odunayo Adekuoroye and Blessing Oborodudu are solid enough to be in the medals bracket of their respective categories while ping ponger, Aruna Quadri, can also make the podium with huge encouragement and motivation from the ministry of sports. Adekuoroye is currently number 3 in the world in her category and she was consistent all through this year with continental and global laurels.  Quadri emerged the first African table tennis star to play in the quarter-finals of an Olympics Games at Rio 2016 and he is expected to do better in Tokyo due to his current form. It is however disturbing than rather than look at these promising athletes and think about ways of preparing them well for the Tokyo Games, the Athletic Federation of Nigeria is engulfed in crisis.   This is so sad and ill-timed. There is a problem within the board as there are two factions currently while the angle of the ministry is also there after the Gusau faction declared that the body would go autonomous at a Congress in Awka. There was another Congress in Abuja two days earlier. History has shown that a crisis like this draws the country back in terms of results.  The example of football is still fresh and the sad effects of crisis must not repeat itself in athletics.