Hoodlums, who looted goods during fire outbreak at the Ekiosa market, Benin, Edo State, have started to return the stolen items. This followed a march round the market by traditional Ayelala priests on Monday. The priests, adorned in red clothes, and carrying ritual items, invoked curses on those who looted goods of most of the victims while the market was on fire. Hoodlums stole bags of rice, clothes, wrappers, goats, birds and costly items during the pandemonium that followed the fire outbreak at the market on Sunday morning. The fire also affected the Edo Property Development Agency (EPDA) building complex. It was learnt that the suspected looters are returning the stolen items to the palace of the Oba of Benin and different spots at the market after the curse was placed on them. The curse has elicited fear in the suspects and the consequence of refusal to return the stolen items is said to be deadly to not only the culprits but also to their families. President of the Edo Women Market Association, Mrs. Blacky Omoregie, confirmed the development yesterday when a delegation from the Oba of Benin, HRM Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, paid a visit to the market. The leader of the market women said several items, ranging from bags of rice, rolls of rappers, cartons and gallons of grand nut oil, goats and others, had been dumped at different parts beside the market square. Omoregie said the reason they invited the dreaded Ayelala priests was because of similar incidents at Satana market on Sapele Road, Oliha and Uwelu Auto Spear Parts market which left many families in pains and frustration. She said: “They have started returning our stolen goods as we invited Ayelala people to issue curses on those behind the series of pains being inflicted on market women and other traders in the state. “Those who are putting fire to our markets should be arrested and those using the opportunity to steal our goods in the market would no longer be free this time.” One of the affected traders, Mr Gentle Imuetinyan Usoh, said some of his goods had been returned. Usoh said the invitation of juju priests was appreciated. According to him, more of their stolen goods will be recovered soon. He said: “Since Ayelala was called into this market fire incident, we have started getting back some of our stolen goods “Many of my goods which I thought were burnt by the fire were brought to the side of the market today. I still believe that our other goods would be fully recovered.” Governor Godwin Obaseki visited the site of the burnt market on Monday where he promised N100 million relief to cushion the effect of the incident on their businesses. The governor also promised to rebuild the market with all safety measures put in place to avoid future occurrence. Obaseki had alleged that suspected arsonists working in cohorts with unscrupulous politicians had been responsible for the recent fire outbreaks in markets. According to him, it is unfortunate that different markets in the state have been gutted by fire within a short period. The governor attributed this development to the antics of the enemies of the state. He said: “They say they want to shame us; they tried other tricks, but did not succeed. They say they will cause havoc during this Yuletide, but their plans will fail. “You cannot tell me that the fire on the 6th floor of the EDPA building was an accident. It is a clear case of arson. We had passed the market to Edo Central Senatorial District. We got to hear about the fire about 10a.m. The Fire Department was sent in from the University of Benin (UNIBEN), but the people attacked them. “Last week, when a similar incident occurred, firefighters came in to quell the fire in Oliha market and the people chased them. There is a pattern to what they are doing. “They should try whatever they like, but we will continue to work for the people of the state; they cannot remove us from Edo.” The governor said the market would be rebuilt from early 2020, while a section of it would be cleared for the traders to use as a temporary arrangement.