…295 armed robbers arrested, says CP   Irked by the flagrant abuse of traffic law in the state, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday said that phone calls would no longer help any traffic offenders arrested by law enforcement agents.   Sanwo-Olu, who expressed worry that some Lagosians hurriedly make phone calls the moment they were arrested for flouting traffic laws, warnings that his administration would put a stop to undue influence and the bending of the law for offenders.   He added that anyone arrested henceforth would be dealt with squarely and that no amount of calls made to anyone would set such offenders free.   This was even as the state’s Police Commissioner, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, said that a total of 295 armed robbers were arrested between October 18, 2018 and September 15, 2019.   The duo spoke at the 13th Annual Town Hall meeting held at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, where they declared Lagos ‘no go area’ for criminals, especially during the Yuletide season.   Harping on the need to intensify law enforcement in the state, Sanwo-Olu said it was disappointing that some people, upon their arrest for flouting the law or driving against the traffic, would start making calls as if it was right for them to disobey the law.   He warned that the era of calling somebody in position of authority for intervention in the case of abuse of the law was over.   He said the state government was currently reviewing the security architecture of the state in line with the recommendations of the Lagos State Security Summit, with the aim of implementing a holistic and sustainable strategy for the state. Governor Sanwo-Olu also explained part of measures put in place to beef up security in the South-West, saying that the governors in the South-West states had constituted a joint task force; “Operation Amotekun,” to share intelligence and coordinate security activities across the states.   He lamented the attack on traffic managers on duty, especially the recent killing of a LASTMA officer by some miscreants in Apapa, saying that the state government would ensure that the full wrath of law was brought to bear on such lawless people.   He said: “It is our job at the level of the Lagos State Security Council to constantly develop and review strategies with the cooperation of all security agencies, aimed at making Lagos a safer and more secured place for all its residents. According to him, there is a strong connection between infrastructure and security, saying; “By working to upgrade infrastructure across the state, it is clear we can achieve significant improvement in security. Let me assure you that you will see a lot more infrastructure work in transportation, energy and other areas in the months ahead.   “Other public order issues, such as those relating to issues around commercial motorcycles, tricycles and buses are also being addressed.”   Meanwhile, giving a breakdown of statistics on the activities of the state police command between September 2018 and September 2019, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu said during the period under review, 295 armed robbers were arrested, 265 murder case recorded, 307 cultists were arrested while 45 suicide cases was recorded.   According to the police commissioner, the figures were relatively lower than that of between 2017 and 2018.