Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola described Gabriel Jesus as an “incredible fighter” and said his side “need” the forward after he scored twice as the champions got back to winning ways with a comfortable victory at Burnley. City had won only once in their previous five games in all competitions and went into Tuesday’s match 11 points behind leaders Liverpool. But they were convincing at Turf Moor with Jesus curling home a fine opener for his first goal in 11 games. Jesus, now the third top scoring Brazilian in Premier League history, then volleyed home Bernardo Silva’s cross after the break. Midfielder Rodri added a stunning third from 20 yards and substitute Riyad Mahrez netted a fourth to take them back into second place in the league, reports the BBC. Robbie Brady blasted in a late consolation for the Clarets, his first Premier League goal in more than two years. The match had the unusual kick-off time of 20:15 GMT because it was being streamed live online by Amazon. Leicester could move back above the champions if they get a point or more at home to Watford on Wednesday. On City’s hopes of winning a third straight Premier League, Guardiola said sarcastically: “The title is over – that’s what I read. No-one gives us a chance, it’s done. No, I don’t believe it. “Our team is stable and that’s what we want. For the distance we have against Liverpool it would be crazy to think about the title, honestly. “It is about the next game.” After a dispiriting month of results – a devastating defeat by Liverpool, two Champions League draws and a narrow win over Chelsea followed by a 2-2 draw with Newcastle – the three points was the most important thing to City. And Jeffrey Schlupp struck in the second half as 10-man Crystal Palace beat Bournemouth to move up to fifth in the Premier League. The hosts lost Mamadou Sakho early in the first half when he was sent off for a high challenge on Adam Smith. Bournemouth dominated possession from that point but failed to make the most of their man advantage as they rarely tested Vicente Guaita in the Palace goal. Philip Billing hit a shot straight at Guaita at the end of the first half, while Dominic Solanke just failed to connect with a dangerous low ball shortly after the restart. It appeared as though the first Premier League match to be broadcast on Amazon Prime would end goalless, but instead the hosts snatched victory when Schlupp, on as a first-half substitute for the injured Patrick van Aanholt, weaved his way through the Bournemouth defence before tucking home a low shot. After a run of five games without victory, Palace have now won their last two having also beaten Burnley 2-0 at the weekend. Defeat for Bournemouth was their fourth in a row and leaves them in 12th. 