The Secretary to the Government of Niger State (SSG), Ahmed Ibrahim Matane visited IBB Specialists Hospital, Minna to sympathize with victims of recent attack by bandits in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state who sustained bullet wounds. Ahmed Matane, who went round the hospital, reassured the people of the area and the state of the present administration’s readiness to step up efforts toward curbing armed banditry, kidnapping and other criminal activities in the state. The SSG described as sad and unfortunate the attack in the local government, stressing that government is worried with activities of armed bandits, kidnappers and as such it is leaving no stone unturned in tackling the dastardly act in the state. He condemned in strong terms the degree of carnage and mayhem bandits and kidnappers are causing to some parts of the state and reiterated government continued determination the rid the state of any security threat. Ahmed Matane urged the people of the area and the state to be more security conscious in order to overcome the present security challenges especially banditry and kidnapping that are bedevilling the country. A s the Niger State Government intensifies plans to dislodge the criminal elements from the state, the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria has disclosed that those perpetrating banditry, kidnapping, robbery and other criminal activities are not Nigerians. While speaking in defense of its members on Friday at an… In "News" The Nigerian Army has established a ‘Super Camp’ in Kotonkoro, Mariga Local Government Area of Niger State. Conducting the Secretary to the Government of Niger State (SSG), Ahmed Ibrahim Matane round the ‘Super Camp’, the Commander, 31 Artillery Brigade, Minna, Brig. Gen. Gideon Ajetonmobi told the SSG that the establishment… In "News" Victims recount losses as IDPs protest, block roads     HELL! That is the best expression to qualify the situation that befell the people of Shiroro, Rafi and Kagara local government areas of Niger State during the week as they did not have any moment of respite from hoodlums for… In "Features"