Charles Adeyemi, a sustainable development advocate and a political scientist, is the Senior Special Assistant on Strategic Communication to Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola. In this interview with ADEOLU ADEYEMO, he speaks on the activities of his boss since he assumed office and on other sundry issues   How would you describe Governor Gboyega Oyetola’s one year in office? It’s been a worthwhile experience of governance like no other. Accountability and responsiveness to issues have been the watchword. The governor been an astute manager of men and resources has really exposed the people to quality leadership. From day one, work has been going on; meeting the direct needs of the people and prompt response to emergency situations. Workers welfare has been his major priority and this could be seen with full payment of workers’ salaries as and when due. This is not supposed to be an achievement, but when you look at the prevailing fiscal situation of the state, you will appreciate the efforts the governor is making to settle every segment of governance and people of our dear state. What do you think people of the state should expect from Governor Oyetola going forward? Beyond the noise of politics, Osun will continue to see prudent management of their resources, leadership per excellence and nurturing of new breed of leaders, youths inclusion in governance, significant recognition for women in politics, infrastructural development, rehabilitation of roads and construction of new roads, opening up of access roads in rural areas for farmers to channel their produce for commercial success and continuous welfarism for workers. The health sector has received maximum attention in Osun; public health care centres are beinb reconstructed across the 332 wards of the state thus meeting the demand of the people at the grassroots. N1 billion was approved for retirees in the state few months ago; their pension hasn’t stopped and efforts are on to ensure that those who haven’t gotten their gratuities and pensions receive them. So much is going on in Osun with less noise. The Iwo to Oshogbo road, Ikirun to Oshogbo road, Ikirun Iragbiji towards Ibokun road, Ejigbo to Oshogbo road, Gbongan to Ikire to Oshogbo and many other roads have been given facelifts. Major government hospitals are getting serious attention even as there is ongoing rehabilitation and building of new general hospitals. An example is the Government Hospital, Asubiaro, Oshogbo. This is going on across the entire state and this is apart from 332 public health centres across the state. I understand there is a need to work more on the mentality of health workers. This is an issue across the country. I am personally worried over the attitude of some health workers, but I can assure you that the state Ministry of Health is working vigorously on capacity building of health workers. We need it now than ever. Security is another interesting area the governor is seriously investing resources on. You will realise that the noise over kidnapping and banditry has gone down. It is not magic; it is the result of concerted effort of government, working in collaboration with the Nigeria Police and other security agencies. Of recent, a joint effort of governors the six states of the South-West geopolitical gave back to security operation tagged ‘ÀMÒTÉKÙN.’ The security situation in the state is improving and this is how much Governor Oyetola prioritises security in Osun. Are you saying that the present administration in the Osun State will leave no stone unturned in ensuring the security of lives and property of indigenes and residents? Exactly, this administration is full of men with impeccable pedigrees and they also have all it takes to govern and steer the ship of the state to the Promised Land. The administration led by Governor Oyetola has a formidable template that would illuminate the state in all ramifications. He is a man of focus and mission. He is a visionary leader with the experience that could be applied to make the state more virile than he met it. With what God has been using him to do since he assumed office, you will agree with me that without mincing words, Governor Oyetola is indeed a progressive minded servant of the state, who takes delight in comforting the discomforted ones in the length and breadth of the state irrespective of political affiliations. How would you describe your personal experience about politics? It’s been wonderful, it’s been educating and it has really exposed me to what we call ‘politics in Nigeria.’ I appreciate the opportunity to serve in the administration of Governor Oyetola. It has also made me to become a student of politics. At times, we tend to want to tell leaders in various political offices what to do, but when we get there, that is when we know what is really happening. Even at that, if you are curious to learn, you may not know much about systems and establishments, structures and architectures of governance and how politics have been affecting our progress in Nigeria. A school of thought believes that political influences from several quarters have contributed immensely to the slow growth of the country. What do you make of this belief? To start with, we need to understand what Nigeria is really about. I quite agree with the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who said that Nigeria is just a geographical expression. By this, he meant we don’t have what really bring us together to become either a nation or a country; there is nothing you can refer to ‘Nigerianess.’ The various tribes and ethnic groups’ act and approach politics according to their interests. Just travel round the country, you will find different Nigeria in the same geographical entity call Nigeria. This is funny, different cultures, languages, prevalent territorial occupations, socializations, even identity! But we have kept faith in what we are called. Nigerians and I think that is okay, but different ethnic agenda is impeding our national focus and progress. What is the way out? Continuous communication and progress-focused dialogue, we must deny ourselves at ethnic and religious levels and focus on strengthening our institutions. The rule of law must be the focus of everyone in this country. We must not compromise the rule of law! The more we disregard the rule of law, the more we move towards becoming a banana republic. Citizens are only protected as long as the rule of law is in place. There are essential rights that we must not joke with –freedom of speech, freedom to liberty and personal dignity as enshrined in Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution (as amended). These rights must be protected; they are fundamental human rights. When we get to that stage where children of nobody can live freely, aspire to be somebody without fear of what could negatively happen to him, it is then that we can say that a new Nigeria is here. How valuable are the youth in the politics and politicking of the country? Youths must rise up, not just to eye elective offices, but to vigorous engage our leaders. I support youths to demand accountability from public office holders. I also support youths to seek knowledge first; you must seek to understand before you can be understood. It is not even about age demographic entitlement; you don’t say because you are a youth, so you must be in power. That is so vain and not purposeful. You must be involved in politics to make impact and not just to be counted among the politicians. The youth must seek to know the workings of our government structures, ministries, departments and agencies. We must know who is responsible for what. It is not enough to just criticize the president, a governor or chairman of a local government on issues; we must know who to hold responsible on any issue and call the person to order. What would be your comment on the Social Medial Bill, which many people believe is aimed at gagging the opposition? For me, it is complicated. I don’t support any move that could eventually silent freedom of expression, but I also believe that the social media must be regulated. This can be done by enforcement of the Nigeria Cybercrime Act and making it popular, so that an average citizen will know this from the perspective of the law. Beyond attacking public officials on social media, private citizens also need protection. These days, people take pictures of anything and before you know it, they are already trending on social media. So many blackmails are going on the social media; innocent people are falling victims of misuse of social media and that is why I think the social media should be regulated alongside mass orientation on what people can do instead of sharing contents that could put them or another person in trouble. The other time, a woman’s picture was trending on WhatsApp that she is a child kidnapper, only to be discovered later that she was just set up by a business rival. Another case was that of a woman being beaten unclad over the claim that she was sleeping with another woman’s husband only to also be discovered later that she was also set up. This has got to stop in this country.