Comrade Mashood Erubami is the president of Nigeria Voters Assembly (VOTAS) and Executive Director Centre for Human Rights and Ethics in Development (CHRED). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on anti-corruption war in Nigeria and the way forward  Nigeria recently joined the world to celebrate the International Anti-corruption Day in commemoration of the 16th anniversary of the United Nations convention against corruption. What are your thoughts on the event? Since year 2003, when the United Nation Convention against corruption became an international document to be celebrated every year, no tangible achievements have been made to reduce its immunities in Africa and Nigeria in particular. Successive African leaders have made appreciable efforts to fight this cancerous abnormality government and among politicians and civil servants. In Nigeria, there is no government that has not indicated desire to fight corruption, but because character and integrity are lacking, it has been an uphill task to root out endemic corruption from government. Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, the first chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) under President Olusegun Obasanjo did his best and passed the baton to Mrs. Farida Waziri, who was confronted with corruption fight-back under President Goodluck Jonathan. The Ibrahim Magu regime in EFCC has been very tumultuous since he took up the mantle under President Muhammadu Buhari as his relationship with the Eighth National Assembly was that of an ‘eye for an eye.’ So, I will say that the fight against corruption had been on, but without achieving spectacular milestone. What do you think Nigeria should have reflected on, while marking this year’s Anti-Corruption Day? Nigeria should have reflected over the struggles against this menace, discuss its problems and define new ways to move forward. This year’s commemoration came in the fifth year in office of President Muhammadu Buhari, who has made the fight against corruption a key mantra of his government. It therefore behoves on every patriotic Nigeria to be a part of the team that will propagate the ideas behind the adoption of the convention on anti-corruption war and restate its impediments. As President Buhari once said, the fight against corruption is a struggle for nation building and the future generation. At the same time, corruption and impunity grow when accountability is disregarded and people get away with all manner of questionable things. In the above sense, the many instances of cabinet members and people in the executive disobeying and  committing  offences against the laws, presupposes that there is a necessity for strong laws, which  must be put in place to fight corruption. Will you call for prosecution of people who are alleged to be corrupt? No one will practice corruption if nobody in government practices it. Prosecution will be nonselective if people in government, its law enforcement agencies, the Armed Forces, anti-corruption agencies, political office holders and people in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and other political parties and legislators commit crimes and they are prosecuted accordingly. It is not enough to forfeit properties traced to corruption acts, anybody found to be corrupt must be prosecuted, deprived of his or her loot and when convicted must serve a jail term as prescribed by law. A government that commits crimes and supports corruption cannot be friendly and cannot be the government that people voted for to change their bad conditions because such government will not track and prosecute crimes. In fact, the provisions of law against reckless governance cannot be meaningful and all attempts to make sense of the law to be enforceable will become difficult and tenuous. What roles do you think critical stakeholders can play in the war against corruption to minimize or eradicate the menace in Nigeria? Stakeholders must assume their critical historical roles to fight corruption to its roots. It will be difficult for other presidents coming after Buhari in 2023 to succeed in winning the war against corruption if the good legacy of the war is not well cemented now. Corruption is our greatest enemy and has started to fight back; all stakeholders must therefore continue to fight until the impunity of corruption is buried to effect a change to our value system. To fight corruption to its roots, the government must first and foremost provide the desired leadership, making its police, armed forces and political office holders obey all the laws against unethical practices. The anti-corruption laws must be strengthened and made applicable to everyone and obeyed by everyone. A lot of people have different views about government war against corruption in Nigeria. How do you think the President Buhari-led administration can strengthen the fight? President Buhari is advised without further hesitation to sign the Audit Reform Bill, which sought to empower the Auditor-General to surcharge and withhold emoluments of any officer culpable of the loss of value in public treasury and refusal to respond to audit query; and power to summon any officer and put the same under oath. In fact, the Next Level government must strive to wipe out the slate of consistent commission of corrupt practices from government and begin to take very tough punitive actions that will stop laying bad precedents of unethical practices, which tramples on human rights and liberties of the people and build government into tyrants. Corruption not prosecuted and punished becomes transferable, breeds contempt for law and attracts people to further commissions of the crimes. You have talked about what the executive arm can do, what is your advice to the legislative arm in the fight against corruption? The legislature must regig its Public Accounts Committee to become better responsible and commence the immediate review of all the reports from the Auditor-General and set it for public hearing on the way forward so as not to remain on the shelves without acting on them. The Public Accounts Committee has the constitutional function to carry out the above duties as stated in Section 85(5), which states that “The Auditor-General shall, within ninety (90) days of the receipt of the Accountant-General’s financial statement, submit his reports under this Section to each House of the National Assembly and each House shall cause the reports to be considered by a Committee of the House of the National Assembly responsible for Public Accounts.” Lawyers and members of the Bench must also join hands with the government to fight corruption by deliberately avoiding judicial bribery and not allowing arrangements monetary or otherwise in the course of adjudication to secure pre-determined judgements. The Nigeria people must also rise to stand against politicians exposed for corruption, stop celebrating thieves who got their money through fraudulent means and begin to join hands with the government to fight the current corruption fight-backs. They must begin to stand against those who commit acts of corruption and stoutly resist the temptation to break its laws in any form and also ensure that those exposed of corruption do not go unpunished.