UCHENNA INYA reports on the supremacy battle between the council chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Hon. Clement Odah and the member representing Ohaukwu South Constituency in the state House of Assembly, Hon. Chinedu Onah, which has heightened tension in the area   O haukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State is one of the four councils under Ebonyi North Senatorial District. It is also one of the lucky local governments in the state, having produced notable leaders at the local, state and national levels.   Some of the notable leaders the local government has produced include the current senator representing Ebonyi North Senatorial District, Dr. Sam Egwu, who had earlier served as governor of Ebonyi State and Minister.  Others are Senator Anthony Agbo, who represented Ebonyi North at the National Assembly between 2007 and 2011; Prince Chibueze Ndubuisi Agbo governorship candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 2019 governorship election and former Commissioner for Education in the state; Prof. John Eke, former Commissioner for Lands and Survey; Chief Jonah Egba, present Commissioner for Solid Mineral Development and former Chairman of the local government; Chief Sunday Inyima, former Chairman of the local government and present Commissioner for Water Resources; Mrs. Chinyere Elom as well as a former council chairman and current Senior Special Adsistant to Governor Dave Umahi on Higher Education.  However, leaders of the heterogeneous local government are always divided along political lines. The division is so pronounced that even those that are not from the area often notice it. The recent clash between the current chairman of the local government, Hon. Clement Odah and the member representing Ohaukwu South Constituency in Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Hon. Chinedu Onah, is a good example of the division.  Odah and Onah had issues at the state Assembly complex in Nkaliki during the screening of the Management Committee members from the 13 local government areas of the state.  Management Committee members are appointees of the state government, who are to serve in the local government areas. The nominees for the positions were sent to the Assembly by the government for screening and confirmation. However, four nominees from Ohaukwu Local Government Area were stepped down by the House during the screening, forcing the council Chairman, Odah to confront Onah to know the cause.  Odah and Onah exchanged words at that point and the council chairman reportedly slapped the lawmaker, when Onah allegedly punched him on the mouth. The incident sparked off protests and counter protests by supporters of the two political actors.  In a swift reaction to the incident, Leader of the state Assembly, Victor Chukwu, moved a motion calling for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the council chairman. The motion was unanimously adopted by the House, which immediately set up a committee to investigate the matter. Odah, who was later summoned by the House, denied slapping the lawmaker, whom he described Onah as his brother. He however, admitted that they had an altercation in a bid to chart the way forward for the people of their area. On whether he would accept the outcome of the Assembly’s investigation on the matter in good faith, he said: “Well the job of the committee is to carry out fact finding about the report they got. Not all members of the committee were witnesses to what happened in the hallowed chambers. But the outcome is still in process and I will not speak for the chairman of the committee.  “My role is to tell my own side of the story and it is for the committee to come up with its verdict. I didn’t slap Chinedu Onah because he is my brother and friend. We only had an altercation, which cannot be denied. There was emotional engagement between us while trying to get issues right as it affects the local government area.  “Ona’s job is to protect his constituents who are brought before the House of Assembly and it is a principle. I also have a duty to protect my people. I only came to put in one or two words for the people we nominated. I have the right to come and interface with other members representing us when any matter is affecting our people.  “The executive and other arms of government are meant to work together. I believe the committee is one that is alive to its responsibilities and I believe that its findings and verdict will be positive. I know it will be fair and will stick to the truth.” Odah had while briefing journalists on the day of the incident insisted he did slap Odah. His words: “Yesterday, the nominees for Management Committee members and Liaison appeared before the House for screening and about four of them were not screened on the basis that there were petitions against them. On getting to the House of Assembly, I sighted one of our honourable members and I felt it was a ground to get some clarifications, so I inquired from Hon. Chinedu Onah to be precise.  “That was all. Then I moved in to interact with other honourable members, who were there waiting for their colleagues at the conference hall. It was not a sitting; not at all. I believed they were waiting for the principal officers. After about three minutes, Onah came in and advanced towards me, shouting that he was not happy the way I talked to him. I said there was nothing wrong with the way I talked to him’ that I just proffered my little advice as a brother and council chairman.  “When the argument got heated up, the other honourable members advised that we should call it off and then they advised me to leave the conference hall. I entered my vehicle and left the Assembly complex. The other version of slap is alien to me.”   The claims and counter claims, notwithstanding, the alleged attack on Onah by Odah heightened tension in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area as supporters of the two political leaders protested over the incident. It was a mixture of drama and confusion in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, as the two protesting groups invaded the Government House Abakaliki over the reported squabble between the council chairman and the lawmaker. Onah’s supporters, with placards calling for the removal of the council chairman from office, first trooped to the Assembly complex before proceeding to the government house. The protesters described the attack on the lawmaker as a deliberate move to distract the lawmaker from performing his legislative functions.  In a statement endorsed by Onwe Erastus on behalf of the others, the protesters noted that the attack was another act of marginalisation and affront on the people of Ohaukwu South Constituency. The statement read in part: “We are worried that this deliberate attack by the council chairman is a direct affront on the people of Ohaukwu South State Constituency who the lawmaker represents, and as such, we may begin to experience another set of injustices and marginalisation from the chairman.  “We call on both the state House of Assembly and security agencies to quickly initiate all measures that will unravel both the immediate and remote causes of the attack and prosecute the offenders in line with the law of the land. On their part, supporters of Odah, led by Benjamin Ogbu, said they took to the street in protest, to counter the insinuations that the council chairman beat up the member representing Ohaukwu South State Constituency. The group declared their unalloyed support for the council chairman and exonerated him from any wrong doing.   Ogbu said: “We heard what people are saying that our council chairman attacked and beat up somebody at the Ebonyi State House of Assembly. He didn’t do that. He is doing very well in his duties, and he does not need any distraction. That is why we came to counter that. Our council chairman is a peaceful gentleman and he cannot do that.”  The two protesting groups were addressed by the Deputy Principal Secretary to Governor Umahi, Emmanuel Obasi and the Deputy Chief of Staff, Government House, Okechukwu Nwakpu, respectively. The government officials, who told the protesters to channel their grievances properly, warned against violence. They, however, promised that government will look into the matter to find a way of mutually settling the disagreement. Meanwhile, Governor Umahi, who is worried over face-off between Onah and Odah, has set up a seven-man committee to investigate the matter, with a view to resolving it before it escalates and causes break down of law and order in the entire Ohaukwu.   The committee was inaugurated last Friday by the governor, while signing the state’s 2020 budget of N178 billion, passed by the House of Assembly into law.   The committee has a former Minister of Culture and Tourism, Chief Frank Ogbuewu as chairman. Its other members are former Deputy Governor of the state and Vice Chancellor of Ebonyi State University (EBSU), Prof. Chigozie Ogbu; former Minister of State for Health, Chief Fidelis Nwankwo; former Minister of State for Power and Steel, Chief Goddy Ogbaga; Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board (UBEB), Chief Hyacinth Ikpor; a university don, Prof. Michael Awoke and and former Head of Service in the state, Chief Dominic Aja, who will serve as Secretary. The committee has 14 days to submit its report.   Speaking at the committee’s inauguration, Umahi said: “Let me condemn seriously the behaviour of the chairman of Ohaukwu in going into House of Assembly in the first place. I don’t want to talk about what happened there, but that is very wrong. Imagine if an Assembly member goes into the office of a commissioner to quarrel not to talk about the hallowed chamber of the House of Assembly. “Everywhere in the world, the parliament’s chamber is always a sacred place, which people do not desecrate. That is why we have set up a neutral committee; people who are not from the state House of Assembly or the state Executive Council to investigate what happened and report back to me. I want the House to be patient, the public should be patient. Let us get to the root of the matter and then we will handle it as it should be.” As the people of the Ohaukwu Local Government Area and the state in general, await the report of the committee, it is expected that it will contribute to the resolution of the crisis to douse tension in the volatile area as the clock ticks to 2020 local government election in the state.