Nigerians are gradually getting used to a new trend in the nation’s political landscape. Almost each day,comes with fresh issues for debate. Sadly, serious issues of national development prop-up and get faded away easily even in the media space. We are mostly bordered about trending topics.  The latest of it in the news is the editorial decision of a national daily that it will, going forward, address President Muhammadu Buhari with his last rank in the Nigeria Army- Major General.  The organisation, in a front page comment penultimate Wednesday titled, “Buhari’s lawlessness: Our stand”, assessed the President and his leadership style and concluded that Buhari, who ruled the country as a military head of state from 1983 to 1985, had failed to wean himself off his military antecedents. As far as the paper is concerned, its action remains a symbolic demonstration of protest against autocracy and military-style repression. The establishment has since matched its words with actions.  Public commentators, lawyers, and several other Nigerians have since been debating on the implication of the move by one of the country’s frontline print media organisations. The reactions are really a mix one. While others see the step by the newspaper editorial team as a bold one, a few prominent Nigerians sympathetic to the Buhari’s government strongly condemn it, insisting that such display shows a lack of respect for the presidency and the President who is the face of Nigeria.  There are those who believe that something sinister is amiss with the intention in the editorial. Why would a newspaper first inform Nigerians of its future decisions of changes in its new house style. I am deeply convinced that the organization currently has a handbook on such. My conclusion in regards to this is not in any way a condemnation of the editorial team and its actions. After all, another national daily since 2015 has chosen to refer to the President as PMB with no dust raised.  What has indeed controversy in the development is the reaction from the presidency itself. It is possible that Nigerians and even foreign readers of the news organization may have not noticed deeply the impact the new changes could make, in terms of damage to the reputation of President Buhari and his government. But, now for the swift response, majority of the populace are abreast with the matter.  First to react in the presidency, was the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina. The content of the initial statement was mild and temperate. In the views of Adesina, taken as those of the President himself, it was something not worthy to dissipate much energy on.   “Nothing untoward in it. It is a rank the President attained by dint of hard work before he retired from the Nigerian Army. And today, constitutionally, he is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces,” the presidential spokesman stressed. I agree with Adesina that constitutionally, Muhammadu Buhari earns the prefix “President” to his names by virtue of the mandate given to him by Nigerian electorates. Interestingly too, the editorial changes in the national daily did not mean outright removal of the title from Buhari’s names.  The changes I noticed in the organizations publication since Wednesday is that, it has only added the title- Major General to the constitutional prefix of President to Buhari’s names. Analysts have observed that the temperate reaction from Adesina may have not satisfied the curiosity a perceived cabal in Aso Rock, resulting in the release of a second statement from another presidential aide.  This time, Mallam Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant on media and publicity to the President. It is assumed that these two close aides of the President should ordinarily have an understanding of a cordial working relationship – on how best to manage the image of their principal. Quite of interest in Adesina’s earlier remark was the conclusion that for choosing to address President Buhari by his military rank, it was a clear testimony to the free speech and freedom of the press environment, which the current administration has pledged to uphold and preserve.  One question to ponder is whether it is possible for Mallam Garba to openly disagree with his colleague on matters of reputation management for the Commander-In-Chief whom they both serve. Garba was in fact not in short of words accusing the newspaper of ‘personal hatred and animus’ for President Buhari.  In the views of Garba, the sole objective of the news organisation is to change the title of the President, a position that has since been widely criticized by national bodies such as the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). Comparing the current change in the editorial style given backed with reasons justifiable or not, with the failure of the news organization to do same to former President Olusegun Obasanjo is missing the point. Here is a portion of the statement I consider being far from the argument.   “The Constitution of Nigeria recognises the President as the formal official title of the occupant of that office. Can the Punch newspapers, in their hubris address the President as Prime Minister as it pleases?” Garba asked. I am not an expert on constitutional matters, but I hold the opinion that the newspaper for me, has not really violated any law in the country. Luckily, President Buhari on countless occasions has attempted to prove to Nigerians and the rest of the world that he is now a true democrat and not the military dictator that he was known as in uniform. It is a fact that Buhari is a retired military general and someone who has undergone the mandatory training. It is important that the President’s media men make deliberate efforts to put thingd on record, the possible misgivings on which the news organization has hinged its decision, as reasons for why it is implementing the change of editorial style. A deliberate and sustained effort to maintain a positive image for the better could rather suffice other than outright war against an unfriendly media outfit.