Dr. Kunle Olajide is an elder statesman and Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on the succession battle ahead of 2023, the recent Kogi and Bayelsa states governorship elections, constitution amendment, anti-corruption war and restructuring, among other issues  The outcome of the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states generated a lot of issues about the credibility of our elections; what is your take on the elections? Those were not elections at all; they took us back to the medieval era of barbarism and brigandage. So, they were no elections. And in fact, I sympathise with Mr. President, who unfortunately because of his party loyalty congratulated the winner. If I were in his shoes, I wouldn’t have congratulated anybody as the winner until after the legal process has been concluded.   Why? Because there were no elections, it was obvious; the media showed it to all of us. The two parties were culpable, but it was only the political party who had the executive authority and controls the security agencies that won. The two parties were prepared for violence but the party that won collaborated with the security agencies and that was why they were able to win. For me, nobody won the election.   With what happened during the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections and the fallout of the 2015 general elections, don’t you think there is need for the amendment of the Electoral Act?  Our problem is not the problem of laws in Nigeria; our problem is simply that of mindset. Our political leadership elites in both sides of divides, when they are in office, seem to forget that one day they will leave that office and become like any one of us and also become vulnerable to the dangers that afflict the society. For example, a PDP woman leader in Kogi State was burnt in her house. I am sure whoever won an election at state and federal levels would be thinking that that would never be my lot; that it will never happen to them. But they forget that as soon as they leave that stage they become ordinary citizens and it could happen to them. So, it is because of short memories and mindset, those are our problems, not laws. We have enough laws. Can imagine the Inspector General of Police having the confidence to say on Television that it was fake policemen that caused all the crises during the governorship elections when he assured us that he had deployed over 30,000 police officers into Kogi for the election. That is a shame; he ought to have resigned because what that meant was that the 30,000 officers did not do anything; otherwise, I cannot imagine fake policemen overwhelming the authentic policemen.   With these worrying signals, do you foresee a situation where elections in Nigeria may gradually be the survival of the fittest through any means except for the ballot?  I’m sorry to say this, I am an optimist but on this issue, perhaps, I may be pessimistic. I do not see anything changing until we put less emphasis on money in political offices. Once you reduce the salary and allowances public office holders, only people who have passion for service would go into politics, that way, you have made it less attractive. But now, politics is the most lucrative business in Nigeria; you earn a lot of money and become famous within a year or two and the whole world is talking about you. So, we have charlatans virtually dominating the political space. If you recall, a senator who was a former Assistant Inspector-General of Police walked round the Senate chamber when he was in the Senate and said most of the senators sitting there were one accused that he detained in custody when he was AIG of Police. So, that is what we have now. Only a few percentages of well-meaning service-minded political elites are there but no sooner than they get there, they become too comfortable because of the allowance and salary and they seem to forget where they are coming from. Would you then suggest a reduction of salary and allowances of public office holders?   I have been saying that since their salaries were announced and published in 2001. The day it was published in 2001, the second day I travelled to the Villa to meet the then President Olusegun Obasanjo and complained to him personally one-on-one on the humongous salary. As at that time, it was not this bad because the legislators themselves have not padded their salary. So, as far as I am concerned before you can have democracy, free and fair election, we must make legislature and executive offices less attractive as it used to be in the Second Republic before the intervention of the military.  Until we do that my fear is that if nothing is done in the next one and half years, bombs will be used in 2023 elections. They used helicopters now to drop teargas; they will use bombs in the next election if care is not taken. So for me, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) should be encouraged to continue on this investigation of constituency projects vigorously so that there will adequate legislation and executive intervention to ensure that it is no longer a drainpipe to the treasures of Nigeria. The money is too much so people are prepared to kill to get there. So, once they demonetize it, then you will discover that people will shift attention away from political offices to some other things where they can make money.   You said bombs would be used in 2023. Why did you think so…   I hope not but since they used helicopters and dynamites now to set houses ablaze, what do you think they would graduate to in the net election?. It was not this bad in 2015; it was not this bad in February this year. So, it is escalating. With what happened during the Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections, are you not afraid that 2023 elections will be a war?   That is what I have said; it will be more than war if nothing is done in the next 18 months to demonetize these political offices or for anti-corruption agencies to beam more searchlights on all the institutions. I sincerely hope not, bombs might even be used.   Less than three years to the next general election there are a lot of agitations as people have started talking about 2023 presidency. Is it not too early?   I will not say it is too early but what I will say is that there is too much politicking than governance in Nigeria. If you go to the developed countries, there is little government and big private sectors; it is only in Nigeria where everything revolves around the government. So, everybody wants to be in government or want his or her family members to be in government. So, the moment you demonetize it, it will lose sight of the people and people will look for ways to add value to the country. For example, one of the things I have always said about politics is this, we have a lot of young men who are very brilliant who could be contributing to the GDP of this country but because there is cheap money in politics, they abandoned their calling and go into politics; this is a shame.   I congratulate and I am going to do a letter to the governor, speaker and the legislators of Zamfara State who have completely removed pensions for governors, deputy governors, speakers, and deputy speakers. Other states should emulate them. You offer yourselves for service for four years and you loot the place for four years and you want to be paid pension when the civil servant who spent 35 years in service found it difficult to get their pension; it is immoral and grossly insensitive. So for me, all other states and the federal government must emulate Zamfara. When a former governor had the effrontery to write in black and white that N10million per month is his upkeep allowance after retiring as governor, it is a shame. How do you see the recent battle and agitation for 2023 presidency between the South and the North who are both scheming to produce President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor?   I am a Nigerian nationalist from Yoruba extraction, therefore, as far as I am concerned, I believe in this country. This North and South divide is the creation of the colonial masters. We are a heterogeneous country, we are yet to build a nation out of it and this is why this dichotomy is being emphasised. For us in Yorubaland, it is not our intention to dominate anybody but we want to be left to run our affairs, explore our resources, exploit    it and deploy it according to our priorities here. We are against this centralized system of government; that is what makes the presidency important.   In the First Republic, the prime ministership then was not important and that was why Ahmadu Bello preferred to remain Premier of the Northerner Region rather than becoming the Prime Minister in Lagos. So that is what we are asking for. This centre is too loaded and that is why we are yet to make a nation out of Nigeria. There is mutual suspicion that one part of the country wants to dominate the other, otherwise, there would have been no need for this discussion.   I recall in the Second Republic, I was always saying that we don’t give a damn if the president of Nigeria came repeatedly from one hamlet in Sokoto as long as others were able to do their business here. Tafawa Balewa, as a Prime Minister had no business with Obafemi Awolowo running the Western Region and that is the benefit we are enjoying today. Awolowo was head of government in Western Region for only eight years; he left office in 1959, yet we are reaping the fruits of his labour till today. That was when we had a foresighted leadership and people-center leadership. This North and South issue doesn’t mean anything to me.   But as a Southerner, how do you a situation where some Northerners are saying that come 2023 they will produce the president despite the fact that President Buhari who is a Northerner spent two terms in office …   Firstly, where is the North? We don’t have the North anymore; anybody who thinks the North remains a mystic is living in a fool’s paradise. The Middle-Belt has come to rediscover themselves. It was when they are part of the North and they were having an advantage over the core North because they were more educated and it was easier for them; that was when the North was blowing hot but now the Middle-Belt has withdrawn from the Arewa Consultative Forum, so there is nothing like North now. In fact I want to say that, it is our failure to build a nation that makes us talk about North and South. Hunger speaks the same language in Lagos and Zamfara; hunger is hunger. The degree of poverty is the same everywhere and if you ask me, the North is more ravaged than the South and this is inspite of their holding on to power for many years in the past. In fact, they have the highest poverty rate, highest kidnapping and murder rate on a daily basis, banditry every day. So what advantage has their stay in government for the benefit of their people?   As a Yoruba leader, how would you react to a statement by the acting President of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) that North will only vote for a Northern in 2023?   You must appreciate that we have freedom of speech. They are just taunting a few of our leaders who appear very parochial; it is impossible. How can anybody say they are going to vote for one candidate; that cannot happen. I am convinced it cannot happen, so I don’t react to such an empty boast.   Are Yoruba leaders really pushing for South-West to produce president in 2023?    For me, what we are more interested in is the restructuring of this country; to allow each state to explore its resources, exploit it and deploy it for the benefits of the people according to their valuables, not presidency. Presidency is hanging somewhere; like what somebody said few days ago and I was very impressed with the statement that what benefit did Obasanjo presidency give the Yoruba people and what benefits has Buhari given to the Daura people in its five and half years? An emir in Daura was kidnapped a few months ago, there is banditry going on there, the vast majority of people there are poor, they are uneducated, so what is presidency? Let us take more about this country; about Nigeria, not about one individual holding one office; it doesn’t mean a thing to me.   But a lot of people believe it is the turn of the South to produce the president in 2023…     It is and I am sure it is the South that will produce the presidency; there is no argument about that. But to me, that is not my priority; my priority is that each part of Nigeria should determine its faith by executing its programme, I don’t care who becomes president. Do you think that can be achieved? Why not? I am sure it is obvious to a lot of people now. I heard the president said that the police must be decentralised and day in day out, they are talking about community policing. They are beginning to see reality; in fact, it is the North that is suffering most in Nigeria.   How?   That is where you have the highest poverty, highest maternal death, highest infant mortality, highest river blindness, and highest child marriage. It is obvious the negative indices are prevalent in the North than in the South. It is confirmed in the World Health Organisation/UNICEF data. So, power is irrelevant. What do you with the power for your people? Do you know why we had Boko Haram; it is a clash between feudalism that is the practice in the North and globalization. Those youths rebelled that how could they subject them to slavery for so long and they began to fight. So, it cannot go on like that. As I said poverty speaks the same language, diseases speak the same language. Revolution is in the offing if nothing is done to change this scenario.   Are you saying revolution may take place if nothing changes soon in the country?   The people will rebel; they will start attacking their leaders and you will discover that some legislators will not be able to go home. I have seen one or two complaining to me on the telephone that they could not go home because they were harassed the last time they went to their constituencies.  Time is running out and you cannot fool the people all the time.  There is speculation in some quarters that peradventure the North hold on to power beyond 2023, the South may be forced to renegotiate their continuous stay in Nigeria…   I don’t talk about such vain imagination. As far as I am concerned, there is nothing to discuss but what I know is that time is running out on Nigeria, the political leadership from both sides of the divide should sit up and address the problems of this country and restore power back to the state. I hate to use the word ‘devolve’ because devolve means that the power belongs to the central. The power doesn’t belong to them; they snatched power from regions at gunpoint. So they stole the power to the centre and they should return it.   There is rumour about President Buhari trying to seek the third term despite the president denying he is not interested in extending his tenure beyond 2023 and somebody has approached the court for amendment of the constitution to pave way for the third term…   I don’t worry about people exercising their fundamental human rights and exercising their freedom of speech as long as it is not scandalous or libelous. We should not lose sleep over that. Do you see the third term scaling through?   No, it cannot happen.    Why do you say so?   Because I am sure it cannot. Nobody has ever done it. Abacha was the first; at gunpoint, with bombs, he tried to perpetuate himself in office but it failed. Abdulsalami Abubakar came in and within nine months he packed his bag and baggage and went home. The world is a global village. It cannot happen in Nigeria. Nigeria is too big; what do you want to use to suppress everybody from Atlantic Ocean to Sahara Desert. Tell me what you want to use? Is it the Army? Don’t we have Yoruba, Igbo and South-South in the Army? We have passed that level.   But can’t the third term be achieved through constitution amendment?   It won’t work because the constitution in spite of its deficiency says you cannot amend the constitution without two-third of the 36 states ratifying whatever you do. So how can you get that?   Corruption has been a major issue in this country and one of the campaign promises of President Buhari is to fight corruption. Do you think this administration is really fighting corruption?   Yes, they are because they have achieved quite a lot and we must give it to them. But until you quench the fire, there will continue to be smoke. With this defective constitution and too much money in Abuja, corruption will continue; it will and you will keep fighting it. A former head of service of this administration who was sworn in by Buhari was removed about six months ago; that tells you that most of the leadership in the administration doesn’t even share the view of Buhari himself. So until you restructure the country in such a way that will make it difficult for corruption to flourish, no matter what you do, it will still continue.   People have been talking about corruption for many years in Nigeria, why is it difficult to fight corruption in Nigeria?   Because there is no political will. Nigeria is not the first place we are having this kind of problem; we had it in Russia for many years until the revolution happened and they change, ditto America and Britain. So, there is nothing to worry about, we will get there very soon. If you watch what is going on, for me, I see it as a good development, youths going to protest and demonstrate in the front of the Department of Security Services (DSS) office. That is exceptional courage. Some youths also demonstrated last week at the National Assembly. So, we are moving and anybody who thinks he can continue to take Nigerians for a ride for a long time must be living in fool’s paradise. It is not possible. Even in your home, you cannot remain dictatorial forever, it will get to a particular stage, your child will tell you, daddy, I am sorry, that is what I want to do.   South-West is not hiding its interest to produce the president in 2023 but there are some schools of thought who believe that division among stakeholders in the region may prevent the region from producing the next president…   I bet to disagree. What is in the presidency? I am not keen on the presidency. I am sure you were about 20 years old when Obasanjo was president, what did he do to your life? Tell me?   Are you, therefore, saying competence and capacity should be the yardstick for the presidency?   I am not interested in either competence and capacity, what I am interested in is let us have a solid foundation, a good structure, constitution and a good system of government first. Where is the competency in the presidency, if I may ask now? So, don’t let us burn our energy on what is not important. Anybody who loves this country now will agree that what we need to do is to rebuild our constitution, make it people’s centered instead of elite’s centered. The system of government we are running is elitist centered and that is why I defined our democracy as government of the tiny political leadership elite by the tiny political leadership elite for the tiny political leadership elite not for the people.   What is your take about South-West integration for all the six states in the region to work together for the progress of the region?   We have to very careful; the priorities of the Oyo State are different from the priorities of the Osun State. Already we have Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) and already our governors cooperated, collaborated and worked together to rid the South-West of this herdsmen and farmers clashes; that is the integration of development. There is no state in the South-West that is not more than some countries in the world. Lagos alone and probably Oyo State are far more populated than the whole of Ghana. I believe in economic integration.   In fact, I once issued a press release that the governors must adequately fund Development Agenda for Western Nigeria to enhance their integration efforts, which they are making now. So for me, the only problem we have is this unitary system of government. My suggestion is that each state should pay their senators and House of Representatives members whatever they can afford to pay; it should not be a federal matter. Bayelsa State can pay its senator N20million monthly while Ekiti State can afford only N1million and anybody who is not interested should stay in his house. So whoever offers himself for service in the National Assembly knows that he is coming to serve and represent his people and anybody who is not interested should stay in his house.  