Plateau State Governor and Chairman, Northern Governors’ Forum, Mr. Simon Lalong, has said his administration is working closely with the Federal Government and security agencies to secure the release of an abducted aid worker from Plateau State, Miss Jennifer Ukambong Samuel and her colleagues.Samuel, who works with Alliance for International Medical Action, a humanitarian organisation in the North-East, were recently abducted in Borno State by suspected Boko Haram terrorists. However, Lalong in a statement signed by state’s Commissioner for Information and Communication, Mr. Dan Manjang and made available to journalists in Jos, said the government was interested in the welfare of her citizens anywhere in the world. He said channels of communication had been opened with relevant authorities to secure the release of not only Samuel but other citizens in the captivity of the terrorists. Lalong encouraged her family to remain prayerful and hopeful as nothing was being left to chance to secure their freedom. Meanwhile, the member representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Dachung Musa Bagos, has called on the Federal Government to facilitate the release of Samuel, an orphan, abducted by Boko Haram. In a statement issued yesterday, Bagos said: “I’m deeply saddened that Plateau citizens are being abducted, and the recent is that of a Medical Aid worker with Alliance for international Medical Action Miss Jennifer Ukambong Samuel. “This calls for immediate security and government’s attention. These are mostly youths with professional callings and have dedicated themselves working in the North-East, providing humanitarian help to victims of insurgency.” Bagos said as a lawmaker, he was disturbed that innocent Plateau citizens were abducted by Boko Haram in Borno State. “This is a sad moment that calls for immediate security and Government’s attention, very unfortunate that Ukambong, who is an orphan, was kidnapped along with several others in a brutal ambush along Monguno-Maiduguri Road on December 22, 2019, the day she was marking the 21st remembrance of her dear father’s demise. “I pray that the Federal Government through the various security agencies will take immediate action to ensure the safe release of our innocent sister,” he said. It would be recalled that in October, 2019, the Boko Haram released a video showing the execution of two male aid workers from Plateau – Mr. Lawrence Duna Dacighir and Godfrey Ali Shikagham.