F resh information has emerged on how a policeman shot and killed 18-year-old Awuzie Duru in Imo State.  This is even as the Imo State Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Ladodo, has revealed that the killer cop has been arrested and presently being detained.  The victim was alleged to have been gunned down by the trigger-happy policeman right inside the premises of the United Bank for Africa (UBA) branch at Umuaka in Njaba council area of Imo State.  Eyewitnesses said that trouble started after Awuzie talked back at the policeman, who had earlier reprimanded him for quarrelling with another bank customer over who has the right to a certain position on a queue. Our correspondent gathered that the incident occurred on December 1, when Awuzie also known as ‘Aboy,’ from Isiozi Aka in the town, had gone to withdraw money from Automated Teller Machine (ATM).  One of the villagers, who witnessed the killing, said that when Awuzie joined the ATM line, other persons joined the queue behind him.  The eye witness recounted: “They were on the queue when Awuzie’s phone rang. He stepped out of the line to answer the call. By the time he returned, the person behind him had taken his position on the queue. The person tried to stop him from taking his former position. This action happened in the presence of the policeman. There was heated exchange of words between Awuzie and the guy that took his position on the queue. The policeman just watched and did not bother to intervene.  “The exchange of words between the two soon degenerated into a fight. In the process, the policeman, who had been watching the scene, surprisingly confronted Awuzie, scolding him as if he was the offender. “In the heat of the moment, the boy replied the policeman, asking why he had been watching, did nothing, and was then scolding him. The policeman slapped him, and the boy retaliated. The policeman pulled out his gun and shot the boy; he died instantly.”  The death of the boy instantly triggered tension across the community as youths mobilised and marched to the police station, Umuaka, to register their grievances. It is common knowledge that youths of Umuaka had previously burnt and vandalised the station under a similar circumstance. According to village sources, some elders appealed to the irate youths, asking them to allow the police hierarchy to handle the matter.  An elder in the area said: “I can tell you that the young men are not happy with the manner that policeman killed the boy over a minor altercation. So, they mobilised to burn down the station to show their anger and loss. But some of us had to intervene because this kind of thing has happened here about 15 years ago after some policemen caused the death of some people in Umuaka. Our youths burnt down the police station back then. We didn’t want that kind of thing to happen again. Some of them are still not sufficiently placated yet, but we’re still appealing to them.”  Ladodo, while confirming the incident, stressed that the command was doing everything possible to contain further degeneration of the crisis.  Ladodo, who disclosed that the killer policeman has been arrested, added appropriate punishment would be meted out to him after investigations. His words: “Yes, I’m aware that youths mobilised to the police station, but I told my men that we must handle the matter via community policing and professionally too. We reached out to the leaders of the community and appealed to all stakeholders to weigh in on the matter. That’s why when the villagers came, we allowed them to express their grievances and we addressed the matter. We were very professional in handling the matter.”