… visits slain officer’s family, vows to prosecute perpetrators  The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, said that the state government would no longer condone any form of disobedience to the laws of the state. This was even as he vowed that harsh punishment awaits anyone who attacks officials of the state’s law enforcement agencies. Sanwo-Olu gave the warning at the residence of late Ola Ganiyu Oyeshina, slain official of Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), who died last Saturday after he was attacked by two trailer drivers in Sifax-Iganmu area of Apapa. The late Oyeshina, 34, who hailed from Osun State, was an orphan. Oyeshina was confirmed dead by a medical team at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH). He was said to have been hit by a big stone while addressing gridlock in Iganmu-Sifax axis of Apapa. Sanwo-Olu, who apologised for the delay in the visit, noted that the visit was not to heighten emotions, but to console the family. He vowed that the killers of the Oyeshina would be caught and dealt with in accordance with the law. He further noted that the death of the deceased was a wake-up call to all Lagosians, describing the attack as, “mindless and callous.” The governor, who was accompanied by his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat and other government dignitaries, wondered why some members of the public would take pride in brutalising those working to make the society better and safe for them. His words: “In the last 48 hours, we’ve had brutality on LASTMA officials, who were doing their lawful duty. We have had people whose legs had been amputated in the last 48hours whilst on the assignment that was given to them to bring about enforcement of our laws and orders. I think this is the level at which we need to make this very stern warning that we will not stop at ensuring that we implement and enforce our laws, not minding which force is involved. Lagos will not condone people that will not obey our laws. We cannot condone reckless killings and sending of our young men to early graves. This government certainly will not stand for that. We are using this opportunity to tell people that Lagos wants to remain secure and safe for all of us.” The Commissioner for Special Duties, Dr Wale Ahmed, led a short prayer session for the deceased. The General Manager of LASTMA, Mr Olajide Oduyoye, condemned in its entirety the continued attack on officers of the agency. The LASTMA boss said that those arrested in connection with the murder would be prosecuted in the court of law to serve as deterrent to other members.