N igeria has a chequered electoral history. Of the 10 general elections the nation had conducted since independence – 1964/1965, 1979, 1983, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2015 and 2019 – only that of 2015 could be said to have met acceptable standards.   The 2015 elections, which saw the defeat of an incumbent president and a ruling party for the first time in Nigeria’s political history was a sharp departure from what obtained in the past. This was justified by commendations the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) received after the polls from both local and foreign observers.   For instance, observer teams from the African Union (AU), European Union (EU) and the Commonwealth, among several other foreign and local election monitoring groups, gave the electoral commission, then under the leadership of Prof. Attahiru Jega, a pass mark for its impartial handling of the polls. The observer groups were unanimous that the elections were peaceful and transparent.  Though many saw the lapses of polls before then as part of the learning process, recent developments in the polity have shown that rather than build on the gains of the 2015 polls, the fortunes of Nigeria’s electoral process is on the decline.   The February/March 2019 general election, which should have been a veritable opportunity for the electoral umpire, political parties and other relevant stakeholders to sustain the tempo, no doubt, fell short of expectation. Most contenders for the various electoral offices in that elections ended up in courts over claims of alleged irregularities that characterised the polls.   While it was thumbs down for the 2019 polls, the recent off-season governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states have been described by both local and foreign observers as one that cast a harsh light on patterns of violence, corruption and outright criminality that have characterised Nigeria’s political system.   The pre and post-election violence, which trailed the November 16 polls in both states, according to many, will drive Nigeria’s electoral process to the brink if left unchecked. Not only that several lives were lost, property worth millions of naira destroyed in the course of the elections.   No doubt, the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC would not be solely blamed for the dwindling fortunes in the country’s electoral process as desperation among the political class is a major contributor. The stake seems to have been raised as elections have become do-or-die.   In the Kogi and Bayelsa elections, politicians and their loyalists, thugs inclusive, had a field day, snatching and stuffing ballot boxes; intimidating electoral officials; killing and maiming perceived opponents. Sadly, at the end of the exercise, results were declared and winners emerged despite clear irregularities. This, perhaps, explained bashings for the electoral commission as well as calls for outright cancellation of the polls.   The Nigerian Civil Society Situation Room, for instance, called for the total cancellation of Kogi State election as it represents a major dent to Nigeria’s democracy. Convener of the group, comprising about 400 civil rights organisations, Clement Nwankwo, warned that forthcoming elections in the country would be characterized by bloodbath if the outcome of the Kogi poll is allowed to stand.   Similarly, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) described the governorship election in Kogi State as falling below minimum standard of a credible election.  A report of the NBA’s Election Working Group (EWG) led by its Chairman, Afam Osigwe, read in part: “The credibility of the entire process was put in issue by the overwhelming incidents of harassment and intimidation of voters and electoral officials, destruction of electoral materials, snatching of ballot boxes and votes and the killings of persons.  “In the light of large scale acts of violence, disruptions of the electoral process, snatching of electoral materials by armed persons some of whom were dressed in police uniform, coupled with sporadic gunshots that scared voters away from voting centres, as observed by the NBA EWG, the elections in Kogi State failed to meet the minimum standards of a credible election.”   It is against this worrisome trend that we call for fundamental reforms to Nigeria’s electoral process in order to address the systemic failure noticed during the 2019 elections as well as the recent Kogi and Bayelsa governorship polls. But, such reforms, we must emphasize, require political leadership that is dedicated to the rights of Nigerian citizens, and an inclusive process of national dialogue, involving state institutions, parties, civil societies and the media. We reiterate the need for political leadership because 12 years after the Justice Mohammed Uwais-led Electoral Reform Committee submitted its report and two years the Senator Ken Nnamani-led Constitution and Electoral Reform Committee submitted its recommendations to the present administration, their respective recommendations are yet to be implemented. It is not enough to advise the main opposition party and others that were not satisfied with the results of governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states to seek redress in court like President Muhammadu Buhari did. The urgent need for electoral reform to be undertaken is to allow time for debate, legislative changes and implementation well in advance of the next elections, so that citizens’ faith in in the power and possibility of credible elections and not the power of the guns would be rekindled.