In continuation of its strategic intervention in select economically viable commodities, CBN rallied cassava stakeholders for a pact aimed at eliminating bottlenecks stifling the commodity’s growth, Abdulwahab Isa reports   Nigeria is yet to reap one tenth of the economic values embedded in cassava. Like other high yield commodities with economic value that Nigeria accords less attention, cassava remains a potential goldmine for the country. To change the tide, the Central Bank Nigeria (CBN) is leading a cassava revolution to enable the country earn reasonable income and also create jobs for Nigerians. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, is thus rallying stakeholders including  state governors from cassava producing belt, cassava farmers, and  conglomerates using cassava byproducts. At a meeting between CBN and the stakeholders, including large scale cassava processors, the message at the meeting, which produced  Memorandum of Understanding (MoU),  was primarily conveyed to resuscitate cassava value chain in Nigeria. Prior to CBN signing MoU with the stakeholders, CBN had included cassava on the forex restriction list. Untapped potential Like other commodities of economic potential that are neglected, cassava is one of the economically viable commodities. What is presently derived from it is just one tenth of its untapped full economic value. At the parley, Emefiele underscored the importance of cassava as an economic commodity. According to him, “demand for high quality cassava flour in bread, biscuits and snacks is above 500,000tonnes annually while supply  is below 15,000tonnes.  Demand for cassava starch is above 300,000tonnes annually while supply is below 10,000tonnes. Demand for cassava-based constituents in sugar syrup is above 350,000tonnes annually while supply is almost non-existent. “Potential demand for ethanol in Nigeria as fuel for cooking, power vehicles (E10), and other industrial uses exceeds one billion litres, while production is near zero.  It was on this premise that we included cassava in the FX exclusion list to salvage the industry, encourage farmers to go back to their farms to boost job creation and increase output and improve the capacity utilisation of our processing companies.” Emefiele noted that the sector had the potential to generate over two million jobs if fully explored. Tackling bottlenecks There are obstacles preventing cassava from attaining its economic height. CBN governor noted that without tackling the obstacles, any investment in cassava would amount to economic waste. He noted that although huge investments were made into the industry during the cassava bread initiative, the industry continues to suffer as a result of low yield varieties, poor farm practices, lack of good quality farm inputs, non-utilisation of available cultivable lands, manual system of production, inadequate funding for small holder out grower schemes and low processing capacity. “To curtail these challenges and in line with CBNs developmental initiatives, the bank is intervening in the sector through a complete value chain approach. This will involve support to the Nigeria Cassava Growers Association at the production level under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) and support to large scale cassava processors under the CACS and DCRR programmes,” said CBN governor. To get every stakeholder on board, Emefiele said CBN was collaborating with the private sector, states in cassava producing areas and other stakeholders to join hands towards resuscitating the sector. “We place a high premium on cassava because the commodity can generally be used for different things along the value chain. The value chain has enormous potential for employing over two million people in Nigeria if well harnessed, due to the diverse secondary products that it offers. “Some of the products include high quality cassava flour, starch, sugar syrups & sweeteners, chips  for domestic livestock feed and for export to China, ethanol/bio-fuels, high fructose cassava syrup (HFCS), fuel ethanol (E10) as well as animal feed from cassava waste among others,” he told his audience, which included Ekiti State Governor, Dr.Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), and Deputy Governor of Ogun State and representatives of big conglomerates like Nestlé, Flour Mills, Promasidor, Unilever and cassava farmers. It was to deal with issues retarding progress of the commodity that informed the bank’s decision to bring all stakeholders together to agree on a framework for modern production and processing. “This is by ensuring that we identify and tackle all major challenges in the value chain from seedlings production, land clearing, planting, harvesting, processing, marketing and provision of extension services among others,” he added. Securing buy-in Transformation envisaged in cassava value chain is not what CBN alone can achieve. All stakeholders, including state governors, cassava farmers and conglomerates using the commodity must come together to achieve it. As landlords, governors of cassava producing states are required to make land available to unemployed youths to embrace cassava farming and processing. Reacting, Fayemi, who is also the Chairman, Nigerian Governors’ Forum, thanked Emefiele for spearheading the revolution in strategic key sectors of the economy. He said: “I am happy that this initiative of dealing with farmers who are the out growers. It’s also dealing with the product itself-improving the yield because the CBN governor spoke to us about working with Umudike and working with IITA in Ibadan. If we expand the land available, what will make this more profitable for our growers is yield. The yield per ethanol is very low; we can increase it if we get the right steps for our farmers and if  we also ensure that we reclaim the land for them by clearing the land by  ensuring we give them support in terms of  security.” Also, Akeredolu said: “Today looks a fulfilling day for us because we have waited for this time to come. We know that CBN has several interventions and on the issue of cassava we have advantage. We have been talking and I want to thank the governor of CBN. He has accepted to look at the issue of cassava and cocoa too. “Cassava is what we have come here to discuss today. We have so many growers. In Ondo State today, we have an industry that is almost consuming all the cassava that we have and they are still buying from outside.  So it is important that if we are able to have so many people to grow cassava as we intend to do with these facilities we are talking of.” On his part, National President Nigeria Cassava Growers Association, Pastor Segun Adewumi, lauded the initiative. He said Nigeria cassava growers were equal to the task save for threat posed by Fulani headers. He commended Fayemi for making Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) available for 6,000 hecters of land allocated to cassava growers in Ekiti State. Last line The quest to revive neglected commodities that are economically viable entails an all-inclusive approach. To redirect cassava to its economic fortune, every single stakeholder connected to it must get on board, charting a new path.