There was confusion yesterday morning in Lagos when a 33,000 fuel laden tanker lost control and fell on the Ozumba Nbadwe Road, Victoria Island, spilling its content on the road. For hours, residents, workers in various offices, motorists and other road users, scampered for safety for fear of the possible explosion that could rock the commercial centre. But the swift intervention of emergency responders, law enforcement officers and traffic management agencies saved the day as the environment of the scene was condoned off while vehicular movement was diverted metres away from the scene, a development that resulted in a serious traffic gridlock that extended to the Third Mainland Bridge. It was also learnt that the 32-year-old driver of the tanker has been taken to hospital by the emergency responders. It was gathered that the unbranded tanker with registration number KRD-280XN, was conveying 33,000 litres of AGO (diesel) to a destination yet to be ascertained as at the filing this report. Hence the combined team of LASEMA response unit, otherwise known as Sharks (Lekki) Response Squad alongside the Bravo Team (Paramedics), another unit of LASEMA, LASTMA, Lagos State and Federal Fire Services, LCC and Nigeria Police, had hectic time in the management of the accident scene. Speaking on the cause of the accident, the Director-General of LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, said that one of the tanker’s tyres burst while in motion. He added that the burst tyre resulted in the tanker running over the highway median while its compartment detached and flipped over, before it finally upturned. Osanyintolu said: ‘On getting to the scene of the incident, a white coloured unbranded tanker with registration number KRD-280XN laden with 33,000 litres of AGO (diesel) was found to have fallen on Ozumba Mbadiwe. Further investigation revealed that one of its tyres burst while in motion. This resulted in the vehicle running over the highway median while the tanker compartment detached and flipped over, finally resting on its head. He, however, said that efforts were made to discharge the remaining content on the road so as to safely evacuate the fallen tanker. He added: “Two compartments of 11,000 litres each had already discharged their contents on the road while the last 11,000 litres compartment remained intact. The road was cordoned off on both sides of the highway and a diversion created to ease movement of traffic. ‘‘The road is being prepared for reopening while the single casualty- driver (male, 32 years) has been taken to hospital by the Lasema paramedic team with suspected internal injuries,” LASEMA boss added.