Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu is a former President of the Campaign for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR). In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on PDP’s threat to boycott future elections, AGF’s position on impunity, role of CSOs in anti-graft war and sundry issues   What is your assessment of the anti-corruption war of President Muhammadu Buhari in the almost five years of his administration?    My take is that President Muhammadu Buhari has shown commitment, determination and has made the fight against corruption a major issue for his administration.   However, it seems not much has changed in the strategy of going about a profound direction or course in the anti-corruption fight in the country. But, speaking statistically as regards the number of convictions and figures in recovered loot, clearly, this present anti-corruption agency under the leadership of Ibrahim Magu has surpassed the previous initiatives under the previous government.   But the question is how sustainable is this and to what extent is the masses being carried along? This is because the fight must be seen as for the people rather than that of the EFCC. In this regard, much is still left to be desired. I guess this was so largely because the wound and damage done to the fabric of our society as regards accountability and transparency is so enormous that not many people believed that there can actually be a genuine fight against corruption in this country.  That leads me to the bigger question of the contradictions that necessarily affect the system in which a government institution is positioned to fight corruption. Many Nigerians believed that there is a contradiction when we expect that government institutions can fight corruption when the real culprits of corrupt practice are government and its agencies.   But, by and large, the fact that the government took it upon itself and made a public pronouncement that this is going to be one of the thrust of our government and then took proactive steps in a way that clearly encourages people to identify with the struggle is worthy of note.   Do you think government has created an enabling environment for civil society organizations to play their role in the fight against corruption?  I think this question needs to be interrogated thoroughly from the standpoint of clarifications. In the first place, the word, civil society, represents alternative to government and governance.   Civil society groups exist because of the vacuum created by government or the inability of government to effectively perform its duties. If government is unable to respond adequately to the fundamental rights of citizens, a human rights organization will evolve among the citizens.   You will refer to an organization as a civil society when it does not conduct its affairs in line with the standard and code of government. It is a civil society when the objectives are distinct from those of government.   Government does what it does ostensibly as service to the people but more importantly to be able to secure people’s confidence with a view to winning the next election.   Therefore, you cannot actually be thinking of a government creating environment for civil society organizations to act. On the contrary, it is the civil society that assumes the responsibility to act arising from the failure of government.   Certainly, civil society organizations have enormous roles to play in the fight against corruption in Nigeria. In essence, there is no civil society organization that is not concerned about transparency and accountability.   However, in the area of collaboration, I have made interventions where I suggested that government should feel sufficiently free to collaborate. With this, a platform to compare notes will be created.   But it is on record that some of the critical Bills we have in the country, like the Freedom of Information Bill, Petroleum Industry Bill and the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) as well as the Electoral Reform Bill are not Executive Bills evolved through the efforts of civil society organizations…   Therefore, I advise that government should brace up because it is Project Nigeria and we are all involved. Government should be humble enough to tap into every segment of the society, including the civil society organizations.   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it lacks the capacity to prosecute electoral offenders and is now pushing for the creation of Electoral Offences Commission and Tribunal. What is your take on this?   My first approach will be to query INEC over what it has done with the powers vested in it by Section 150 of the Electoral Act 2010. That Section expressly said that INEC shall have powers to prosecute electoral offences throughout the country and that in doing that, it could decide to firm out the cases to competent lawyers across the country.   I think we need to be a bit careful about this whole quest to create one thing or the other. There are agitations for creation of special court for corruption cases, agitations to create Electoral Offences Tribunal and so on. I think we must be circumspect about all these issues so as not to run into a more complex situation.   The point should be made that the nation’s judiciary need a lot of support. When I said support, I mean funding. This is what will engender growth and specialization. This is what we need to do as alternative to all these agitations for creating one thing or the other.   I need to also say that once the Electoral Offences Commission and Tribunal is created, we are also building bureaucracy that will also draw on the existing lean purse of the country. So, I am not in support of the creation of Electoral Offences Commission and Tribunal.   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to boycott future elections in the country unless the electoral process is reformed. The party said the 2019 elections were the height of electoral impunity that set the nation’s electoral development backwards. How do you view this threat?   I wish the PDP goodluck in their quest to boycott future elections in Nigeria. It is good to hear this from PDP. If the PDP boycotts, it will be caught by a Section of the Electoral Act that insists that a candidate and a political party must participate in an election before the outcome of such election can be challenged in court. I hope they put this in mind as they issue the threat.   However, much as I sound sarcastic about PDP, it is also good that we analyse this issue. This is because all of these resentments point to the direction of a country that must get itself properly organised, failure of which we are beginning to lose not just the interest, but the participation of every political actors in the system.   This PDP’s threat re-echoed the loss of confidence in the system and it is somewhat valid. But, more importantly, there is a whole word between the concept of validity and legitimacy.   A process is legitimate when it involves active participation of the people. However, it is valid because we know that it is what is in existence. For instance, the 1999 Constitution is a valid document but it is not legitimate because there was no participation of the people in its evolution.   So, when you see a major political party like the PDP threatening to pull out from a process, and if it is able to woo other political parties to its side, what will happen is that there will be a valid election but it would not be legitimate.  In that regard, it is important to take every step that will rekindle the hope of the opposition in the nation’s electoral process.   In a presentation on behalf of Nigeria at the 18th Session of the Assembly of State parties to the Rome Statute of the ICC at the Hague in Netherlands, the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), was reported to have said that impunity has no place in Nigeria. Do you share the AGF’s sentiment?   I think this is what encourages civilized nations of the world to continually discountenanced Africa when serious issues are being discussed. It is not sufficient to play to the gallery and yet, play the ostrich.   Conscience is an open wound and only truth can heal it. I am sure that the AGF is battling heavily with his conscience because he knows that he has said the very opposite of the situation in the country.   The AGF supposed to be the Attorney-General of the Federation and not the Attorney-General of Buhari. Section 287 of the Constitution places a mandatory duty on every person not just the government or its agencies, to respect the decision of all courts of the land.    So, if Malami presides over the affairs of the Ministry of Justice and is the Chief Law Officer of the Federation as specified by Section 150 of the Constitution, then, I will leave him to his conscience over the numerous court’s judgements that have been flouted.   I am at a loss as to the AGF’s understanding of impunity. Of course, to him, it is arbitrariness and total disregard for the rule of law.  