  A fter a brilliant showing as part of highpoints of the National Festival for Arts and Culture (NAFEST) 2019, at the Oba Akenzua Cultural Centre in Benin City, the Edo State capital, Emotan, the keenly anticipated play written and directed by written and directed by William Benson, and produced by Joseph Edgar, aka Duke of Shomolu, is set to thrill Lagos theatre audience, from this Sunday December 22 to Wednesday 25, at MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos.   The engaging historical play, which tells the story of Emotan, a strong market woman who traded in foodstuffs around the 15th century at the Oba Market in the ancient Benin kingdom during the reign of Oba Uwaifiokun and Prince Ogun, who later took the name “Oba Ewuare the Great” after becoming the Oba of Benin, features crop of notable actors Evina Ibru, Yemi Sodimu, Olu Okekanye, Pa Amos, Aisha Yusuf, and others, including talented dancers.  Emotan is the pioneer of the first day care centre in Benin City. She assisted Oba Ewuare in reclaiming the throne as Oba of Benin after several years in exile.   At its performance, the First Lady of Edo State, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki said Emotan’s story highlighted the timelessness of empowering women and sustaining the fight against human trafficking.   In his remark, the Honourable Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Diaspora Affairs for Edo State, Hon. Osaze Osemwengie-Ero described ‘Emotan’ as “a triumph of storytelling about the Edo people”. She assured that the government is doing everything to put Edo State on the global cultural tourism map through showcasing the best of our rich heritage.   Speaking on the Foundation’s support, the Director, MTN Foundation, Dennis Okoro, said, “From her tenacity and resourcefulness to her patriotism and courage, Emotan is a historical figure we can learn a lot from. It is stories like these that fuel our Foundation’s commitment to introducing a new generation of Nigerians to our great history.”   This production was a strong reflection of NAFEST 2019’s theme of ‘Our Royalty, Our Pride’, which afforded cultural enthusiasts the opportunity to bask in Benin’s rich and long traditional heritage.