L agos State House of Assembly has declared that it will not repeal the state’s pension law permitting former governors and other public office holders to receive juicy pensions from state coffers.  Some of the beneficiaries of the pension law in Lagos are Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Mr. Babatunde Fashola and the immediate past governor of the state, Akinwunmi Ambode.  In the Public Office Holder (Payment of Pension) Law No 11 Official Gazette of Lagos State, 2007, the former governors and deputy governors of the state are entitled to a house in either Lagos and Abuja.  Also, the law also makes provision for six new cars every three years, 100 per cent of their basic salary while serving (N7.7m per annum), as well as free health care for them and members of their family.  As part of the package, the former public office holders are entitled to furniture allowance, which is 300 per cent of their annual basic salary; house maintenance allowance; utility allowance, and car maintenance allowance. There are other benefits like attachment of eight policemen and two operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS).  Mr. Tunde Braimoh, Chairman, House Committee on Information and Strategy, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday that Lagos Assembly would not go the way of the Zamfara State Assembly which recently repealed pension law for its former governors.   NAN recalls that a Federal High Court in Lagos had ordered the Federal Government to recover pensions collected by former governors now serving as ministers and members of the National Assembly.  The court also directed the Attorney General of the Federation, Mr. Abubakar Malami, to challenge the legality of states’ pension laws permitting former governors and other ex-public officials to receive such pensions.  Braimoh, however, faulted the court ruling that ordered Malami to take immediate legal action toward the abolishment of state laws that permit “former governors to enjoy governors’ emoluments while drawing normal salaries and allowances in their new political offices.”  He told NAN that as long as the law did not contravene the constitution, state assemblies had the right to make laws for the benefit of the society in which they operate.  According to him, separation of powers, as enshrined in the constitution, empowers the legislature to make laws, the executive to implement and the judiciary to interpret the laws.  “The Supreme Court had made it clear several times that no arm of government can repeal the constitutional provisions of another arm of government. “Therefore, legislators make laws that are in tune with the yearnings and dynamics of their society.  “Until another legislature comes to alter, review or amend the law, the law is meant to be obeyed.  “The judiciary cannot pronounce that a law by the state is unconstitutional unless such state law is contradictory to the constitution,” the lawmaker said.  Braimoh said he was not aware of any law that restricted state assemblies from making laws for the provision of welfare package of former governors and public office holders.