…orders map error correction  The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday declared Rivers State as the owner of disputed Soku Oil Wells/Fields located in Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State. The court ordered the transfer of Soku oil field from Bayelsa to its rightful owner, Rivers. The decision of the court was premised on a suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/984/19 filed by the Attorney-General of Rivers State against the National Boundary Commission (NBC). Delivering judgement, the trial judge, Justice Inyang Ekwo held that after examining all the documents from relevant government agencies and facts before the court, the Soku Oil Wells/fields belong to Rivers State. The court, however, made an order compelling the NBC to rectify forthwith in the 12th Edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria, the erroneous interstate boundary between Rivers and Bayelsa states as contained in the extant 11th Edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria. The court further held that the continued failure and refusal of the NBC to rectify the admitted mistake in the 11th Edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria since 2002, which erroneously showed St Batholomew River instead of River Santa Barbara as the interstate boundary between Rivers State and Bayelsa State, is a breach of its statutory duty and a flagrant disobedience of the order of the Supreme Court contained in its judgement delivered on 10/7/2012 in Suit Number SC. 106 /2009. Justice Ekwo held that the continued reliance on the said defective 11th Edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria by the other Government Agencies/Statutory Bodies, especially the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) and the Accountant General of the Federation in the computation of revenue accruable to Rivers State from the Federation Account has resulted in the continued unjust denial of derivation funds accruing from the Soku Oil Wells/fields situate within Rivers State to the detriment of the state government. The court, however, ordered the NBC deeming the administrative boundary between Rivers State and Bayelsa State to be River Santa Barbara in accordance with the admission of the Commission as per letter of 3/7/2002 and the definitive order of the Supreme Court made on 10/7/2012. The court, however, directed that notice be served of the decision of the court on the RMAFC and the Accountant General of the Federation. The court held that the NBC cannot unilateral delineate boundaries between Rivers State and Bayelsa State after the Supreme Court judgement on the matter. The court also dismissed an objection to the suit raised by the NBC, which it said is lacking in merit. Speaking after the judgement, counsel to the Rivers State Government, L.E. Nwosu (SAN), described the verdict as a victory for the rule of law in Nigeria. He noted that there was an admission of error by the Surveyor-General of the Federation and the NBC, wherein in the 11th Edition of the Administrative Map of Nigeria, the boundary between Rivers and Bayelsa states were wrongly relocated from River Santa Barbara to St Batholomew River. He said the Supreme Court, based on the admission of the NBC, declared that it was an error and ordered the Commission to rectify that error. He regretted that by that error, the 13 per cent derivation meant for Rivers State was wrongly paid to Bayelsa State. He stated that the declarative judgement of the Federal High Court is in the right direction, as it will check any resort to self-help over the injustice. He added that the Soku Oil Wells/Fields have always belonged to Rivers State as admitted in writing by the NBC.