Chief Lanre Rasaq, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), believes that there was nothing unusual about the recent governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi states, describing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as a bad loser. He also speaks in this interview on the 2023 presidential election, among others issues. ADEWALE AJAYI reports   Some Nigerians as well as members of the international community have condemned the recent governorship elections held in Bayelsa and Kogi states, repudiating the violence that characterized the polls. How would you describe the elections? I will take you back to the attitude of Nigerian politicians, when they win an election, it is the best conducted; when they lose, the process of conducting the election is bad. We are all living witness of what happened in Bayelsa State. The outgoing governor, Seriake Dickson decided to field an unpopular candidate despite appeal to him not to do so. Well, it is a lesson to those, who felt they are the all in all, and that they meant everything, thinking they have right of life and death because they are political leaders. That was what the people of Bayelsa just told Dickson that he could not do that to them, his folly became our blessing. We in the APC went through the meticulous process of picking the right candidate and he was accepted across board and that reflected in the election result, so we are happy for it. When judgement was given against APC in Zamfara and Rivers states and we lost from the National Assembly election, through governorship and House of Assembly, because our candidates were not accepted by INEC, PDP members celebrated, stating it was the best that could have happened, but we never complained. When the PDP lost at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal and the Supreme Court, they condemned the judiciary that, saying is bad, it is corrupt. That means that it is only when judgement is in their favour that it is the best. In Kogi State, the people chose Yahaya Bello as their governor because they knew about the resources available to him to manage the state and they believed that he has done wonderfully well in managing those resources. They also believed there is a need for him to complete his eight year tenure and consolidate on what he has done and take the state to the next level. Of course, the people are equally aware that the APC government at the federal level is doing wonderfully well and they needed to be on the same page with the federal government, so that they can attract more development to Kogi State. The people have seen the PDP spent 16 years in government in Nigeria and they know the destruction the party did to their psyche. How about the violence that claimed several lives during the elections? They are entitled to make allegations, but whoever wants to ascertain the allegation or hold one party or the other responsible for the crisis needs to do a thorough investigation. I am not a security officer, but the information available to me pointed accusing fingers to PDP members, who wanted power at all cost, and it takes two to tango. Look at it this way, you cannot clap with one hand, that I know too well. It is all about attitude of Nigerians to politics, people wanting to be in office at all cost. It is about I want to govern the people, either they like it or not, but it shouldn’t be so. The people will react accordingly if a political party insists it wants to govern them at all cost. The media has a role to play in disabusing the mind of the people, who have such mindset. And you will recall that former president Goodluck Jonathan once said that nobody spill the blood of an innocent Nigerian because of power. Spilling of blood is not the way of the APC. We are peaceful and committed to the development of the country, which explains why people continue to embrace our party. The seeming face-off between President Muhammadu Buhari and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has been a source of concern to Nigerians and appears to be having negative impact on governance. What is your view on this though the duo have persistently denied the rift? Nobody should cry more than the bereaved. The president has made it clear that there is no rift between him and his vice. Osinbajo has also made it clear that they don’t have problems. So, who is that person that is crying? The two of them are still working together towards actualizing the mandate that was freely given to them. Buhari is a man of God, he will not intimidate, embarrass or take a decision that will prevent his vice from performing his assigned duty. Those who are insinuating that there is a rift are just playing politics. How about the sack of 35 aides of the vice president? They may have reasons for taking such decision. It is not political, but for the benefit of the economic development of the nation. If you tell me that they are trying to impeach the vice president or that the vice president does not have an assignment, I will then believe that something is wrong. What is your take on the Hate Speech and Social Media bills, which many see as an attempt to gag the media and Nigerians? Nigeria is in democracy, and all of us without an exception have roles to play. The constitution guarantees freedom of expression. I have said it and I will repeat it that the bill they want to pass is unacceptable to democrats like me and to several other democrats, who believe in the rule of law and the provisions of the constitution because it is entrenched in the constitution that you have the right to express your views on any issue. If somebody now seeks for someone to be killed for airing his views, I don’t agree with the proposed law. Several APC members also do not agree with the law and they don’t support it. So, I strongly believe that the bill will not see the light of the day because it is against freedom of expression. It is believed that the card reader was introduced into the electoral process to check the issue of over voting, but INEC recently stated that it has outlived its purpose because it is not acceptable as evidence in court. What do you think should be done to bring sanity into the electoral system? INEC is in charge, and when they say they are facing some challenges, they should be allowed to do more research into our electoral process. We deserve the best, so let them give us the best. Let the media sensitize politicians and the electorate to stop vote-buying, to stop monetization of votes and to ensure that votes count. If that is done, the electoral system will be better. Don’t you think that it would be difficult to stop vote-buying because of the poverty level in the country? You said one thing; that poverty is the driving force that made people to sell their votes, but I can assure you that after Buhari’s second term; he would have succeeded in almost eradicating poverty that people won’t go and collect money to vote. So, all I am saying is that people should give support to the Buhari administration, let there not be unnecessary distraction, so that it can deliver on dividends of democracy for poverty to be reduced. But the general impression is that the level of poverty is increasing? That is not correct. I am a public figure and I am in a position to tell you what the situation is. I know the number people who come to my house on daily basis to request for financial assistance when the PDP was in government. I know how many of them, who are coming now, but the number has reduced. It is good news because instead of giving them money, I assist them to be in a positions to earn their own living and stop going around to beg because there are lots of job opportunities the current administration is providing. With the development and the way the president is taking Nigeria to the next level, I can assure you Nigerians will be out of poverty sooner than expected. The jostle for 2023 has commenced in earnest. While some are of the view that the South-West should produce the next president, others are saying that it is the turn of the South-East. However, some Northerners are insisting on their region retaining power. Don’t you think that there is the need for your party to harmonise this to avoid creating problems for itself? All what is happening is power play. Every Nigerian, irrespective of where he comes from is entitled to the position of president, but what we need to do, and which we are doing, is to let them look at each of the candidate and pick the best. To me, despite all the names being paraded, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu still stands shoulder high than any of the names mentioned so far. I want to implore you to educate Nigerians not to just pick a president, but a president who will be effective, acceptable, knowledgeable and has the capacity to understand what the office of the president is all about. Against this backdrop, I maintain that the best man for the position is Bola Tinubu. There is no way many Nigerians will not be interested in that office because it is attractive, but there is the need for those who have the knowledge of all the candidates to educate the citizens on the implication of picking the wrong person at this critical stage of our economy. That is why we are offering Tinubu because he has what it takes to do the job. Let everybody be aware, that they don’t need to worry too much, as God has provided this man and has been protecting his life, so that he can provide the service Nigerians require of him.