Cajetan Mmuta reports on the fresh twist in the Edo State of House of Assembly crisis that saw its leadership declaring vacant, seats of two members and 12 member-elects and consequent request for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct by-elections in the affected constituencies   Members of the Edo State House of Assembly came hard on two of their colleagues and 12 members-elect last week as the Speaker of the House, Hon. Frank Okiye, declared vacant, their respective seats in the hallowed chamber of the state legislature. The 14 members, who had rightly or wrongly carved a path for themselves, were among the original 24 All Progressives Congress (APC) members elected in what was loudly referred to as 24 over 24-member house to represent their respective constituencies. While declaring vacant, the seats of the members-elect, Okiye said: “Even if the members-elect come for sitting today, they will not be able to meet the mandatory 180 sitting days as enshrined in the constitution.” The 12 members-elect, who are yet to be inaugurated are Vincent Uwadiae (Ovia North-East 2), Ugiagbe Dumez (Ovia North-East 1), Washington Osifo (Uhunmwode), Victor Edoror (Esan Central), Kingsley Ugabi  (Etsako East) and Michael Ohio-Ezomo (Owan West). Others are Sunday Aghedo (Ovia South-West), Chris Okaeben (Oredo West), Crosby Eribo (Egor), Seidi Aliyu Oshiomhole (Etsako West 2), Oshomah Ahmed (Etsako Central) and Ganiyu Audu (Etsako West 1). Okiye said the 12 members-elect defiantly refused to come forward to process the necessary documentation as part of conditions for their inauguration. According to the Speaker, “12out of the 24 members-elect who completed their screening and documentation process were inaugurated on June 17, 2019, out of which two of them have refused to discharge their legislative duties.” He explained further that “they have refused to represent their constituents in the House, invariably denying their constituents effective representation.” Against this backdrop he declared: “At this point, I am declaring the seats of the 12 members-elect vacant in accordance with section 109 subsection 1(f) of the Constitution.” The speaker, thereafter, called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct by-elections within 90 days in the affected constituencies. Giving further clarifications on the action, Deputy Speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Yekini Idiaye (Akoko Edo 1), said the resolution to declare the seats vacant was reached at a plenary of the Assembly held on December 4. He said two of those affected, members representing Oredo East and Owan East, were sworn-in, but failed to meet the mandatory 181-day sitting requirement for a member in a calendar year. For others, who hadn’t been inaugurated since the proclamation of the House, he said: “Their constituents have been complaining and have come to us that they want their voices and concerns to be heard at the House. So, people who are willing to provide quality representation have to be elected to bring the matters of the distraught constituents to the floor for debate and legislation, where necessary.” He added: “We decided to declare the seats vacant, following petitions from their constituencies; we have received over 100 petitions and even have to personally prevent a number of protests from the constituencies. The constitutional provision allows us to declare their seats vacant after being absent for 181 days sitting and we have sat for more than that.” But, the spokesman of the lawmakers-elect, Washington Osifo, said the action of the House of Assembly is laughable. His words: “It is a laughing matter because the matter is before the court and when a matter is before the court, such action is prejudice. We are challenging the illegal inauguration of the House and anything put on nothing cannot stand. “Okiye is a man, who is in search of identity. He is working with the governor in the pursuit of a blind ambition, but they have hit the rock. Information got to us as early as last week that he met a group, who call themselves a union of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidates, who contested the election. “He held a meeting with them and they agreed that they should write a petition to the house and it is on that premise they did what they did. It also confirms what has been on the ground that the governor wants to handover the state to the PDP.” The claims and counter-claims, notwithstanding, findings, however, showed the leadership of the state Assembly had formally written to the Independent National Election Commission (INEC), and presently, is awaiting the electoral umpire to respond by setting in motion machinery for the conduct of by-elections in the affected constituencies, in line with the law. Interestingly, the people of affected constituencies, party chieftains and other stakeholders have hailed the sack of the absentee members-elect, noting that lack of representation of their respective areas for about six months had deprived them of the benefits of democracy. A cross-section of the party chieftains and constituents, said the move was a welcome development as it would pave the way for the election of persons willing and ready to represent the interest of the people. A chieftain of the APC in the state, Mr. Charles Idahosa, who hails from Uhunmwonde, which is among the affected constituencies, said it was regrettable that the members-elect chose to stay away from the House because of their selfish interests and in the process, deprived their people of credible representation. According to him, “it is a well-known fact that the House is made up of 24 members elected on the platform of the APC to serve their people. Those who decided to stay away have been shown the exit door and it is the right thing to do since the people were starved of credible representation.” On his part, Hon. Osaigbovo Iyoha, who represented Oredo East in the 6th Assembly, said the development shows that members of the Assembly are truly on the side of the people as they have thought it wise to declare the seats vacant, so that well-meaning persons can take up the mantle of leadership and represent them. Also speaking on the issue, Mr. Ibrahim Azeez from Etsako Central said the declaration by the House was in order, noting that people in his community have never supported the idea of absconding from the House, when there was serious legislative work to be done. “I am very delighted with the move. The House has shown that it has a mind of its own and that members of the Assembly have the interest of the people at heart.” However, analysts, who x-rayed the lingering Edo Assembly crisis, were of the view that is sad the members-elect opted to frittering away the grace of electoral mandate and goodwill extended to them by the people to represent them. Costly as the value of this mandate freely given to them by the people seems, they had loudly vowed during their campaigns to protect the sanctity of peoples’ votes. But, it is questionable whose interest the reneged choice and option for war by the members-elect tend to serve in the face of the over six months abandoned constitutional responsibilities. They have, instead, thrown caution to the wind and resorted to endless to war of attrition that does no one any good. There is no doubt that the target is to slow down the pace of development in the state, but the resistance by support groups and forces loyal to the governor are understandable in their brick wall approaches. While the supposed servants of the people continue to revel in cozy and parlous hotel rooms despite the huge bills each passing day, it is not far from all deductions that they have chosen to starve the citizens and stifle governance in their home state because of mere inexcusable lucre and pursuit for personal interest. Otherwise, how best can one describe such empty political jamboree or voyage of self-destruct by elected representatives, who have chosen the comfort of the Federal Capital Territory (FTC), Abuja, while their home front is on fire? It is instructive that the people whose voices, nightmarish pains and needs should be salvaged through effective lawmaking processes, resolutions, petitions and positive representations where necessary, are now languishing in utter despair and abandonment without anyone speaking for them in the hallowed chamber on key issues of government and governance. Perhaps, the people of the affected constituencies would have suffered more if not for the resolve of Governor Godwin Obaseki to ensure that justice is done to all through his numerous people oriented projects. No doubt, the ship of Edo State under Obaseki has steamed with smooth cruise and journeyed progressively and the people have long adjusted their thinking caps in admittance of obvious truths, manifest possibilities, inevitable changes and realities of the time as expressly espoused and proven by the governor’s avowed poise to do things differently. This is in line with the government’s towering toast to depart from the old order, something that now irritates those who claim to know better but are locked in the euphoria of self-deceit and grandstanding. The governor has adequately positioned himself as a no-pushover in the affairs of government and governance system. The fruits of these sacrifices are evident in the holistic reforms towards positioning the state on the path to greatness. To the Obaseki-led administration’s credit are massive infrastructure in road construction, improved healthcare delivery, jobs creation, agripreneur programme to boost food production, guaranteed security to attract investors and boost economic growth, fight against human trafficking and illegal migration, viable and digital education programme that has gained momentum and attraction of stakeholders, building of industrial hubs and parks, dislodging of age long notoriety by miscreants who had held the state to the jugular to feed fat from the peoples’ collective patrimony and several others. While these testimonies, no doubt, remain the ache that has continued to trouble camps opposed to the government of the day in the state, the ugly scenario painted by actions of self-serving politicians, firing deadly arsenals from another land other than the Heart Beat state in the name of battle for the soul of Edo has set a major twist in the crisis rocking the state chapter of the APC. The 14 embattled lawmakers are yet to taste the true baptism for lawmaking processes, but have resolve to pitch tent with the National Chairman of the ruling party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Beyond all pretenses, Oshiomhole (from Edo North Senatorial District) had as governor served Edo State for unhindered two terms of eight years. During the time, he maximally enjoyed support from across all divides of the people. It is against this backdrop that many insist that he must act as a rallying point and not in contradiction of a fatherly role and national leader expected of him. The general view is that the APC national chairman and his foot soldiers must sheath their swords and support Obaseki, who needs their backing at this auspicious time in the life of the state.