Over 100 old women from Agubia in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State yesterday marched half naked to the Government House, Abakaliki, to protest the arrest of their sons by security agents. The women alleged that over nine of their sons have been arrested by security agents allegedly acting on the orders of a top state government official from the area. A bloody clash had erupted between two rival groups in the area three weeks ago over the control of Agubia Motor Park in the community. The motor park is the central park where all the vehicles leaving and entering the community stop. The incident claimed the life of a man, Chinedu Nwali, while many others were injured. Also, houses, cars and other valuable properties worth millions of naira were damaged. Six policemen deployed to the community to control the disturbance were abducted with their rifles and operational vehicles snatched from them. The abductors also stripped the policemen. The policemen were later released following deployment of more armed security agents. The incident reportedly led to indiscriminate arrest of some persons in the community. Yesterday, women of the community appeared half naked and marched straight to the Government House, Abakaliki, to protest their sons’ arrest. The women disclosed that since the clash peace had eluded the community. The protesters, between the ages of 60 and 80 years, who besieged the gate of the Government House, Abakaliki, about noon, claimed that there had been incessant arrests in the village. “The latest was the arrest of two persons from the village who came for a wedding ceremony in Abakaliki last Saturday,” one of the protesters said. Mrs. Mercy Nwali, who spoke on behalf of the women, said the protest was to demand urgent and amicable resolution of the matter as their lives and those of their family members had been in danger. She said: “What we demand is that all of them who are involved in the crisis should come home so that we could make peace. They shouldn’t be in town here and be terrorising us in the village. Any time we schedule to meet to seek solution to the crisis, we don’t see them. We no longer sleep in our homes and we want government to intervene.”