Seven people were injured and 10 cars damaged yesterday afternoon in Lagos after a gas cylinder exploded at 4Point by Sheraton Hotel, Oniru, Victoria Island. The explosion occurred as a result of gas cylinder being used by welders working on the hotel premises. The leakage was said to have come from a gas cylinder hose. The blast led to a confusion on the hotel premises as visitors and other people around became jittery. Several cars’ windscreen and hotel room windows were shattered. Director-General of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, LASEMA, Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, said that the agency’s investigations also confirmed that the explosion was caused by a gas cylinder. He stated that a total of three people sustained injuries as a result of the blast, adding that two were rushed to the Intensive Care Unit of the Lagos Island General Hospital. He said that the LASEMA AMBULANCE UNIT also rushed one of the victims to a nearby private hospital. Oke-Osanyintolu said “On getting to the scene of the incident, a gas cylinder was said to have exploded within the vicinity of the hotel. Further investigations revealed that the gas cylinder used by welders working in the yard of the hotel premises exploded due to a leakage from a gas cylinder hose.” Oke-Osanyintolu, however, assured members of the public that the situation had been brought under control. He went on:: “Reports has it that when welders attempted putting finishing touches to the last two pipes needed to complete the borehole project in the hotel premises, there was a blowback when the welding equipment was restarted, leading to a burst pipe and eventual explosion of the welder’s gas cylinder. Aside shattered hotel room windows, damaged walls and other yet to be detected physical damages to the structure of the hotel as a result of shrapnel, 10 cars were destroyed by effects of the explosion and flying objects.” Osanyintolu said that in compliance with international best practices in emergency situations, the entrance of the building and the entire area surrounding the incident point, has been cordoned off.