…says ex-VP’s comments, hypocritical, fallacious  The Buhari Media Organization (BMO) has lambasted former Vice President Atiku Abubakar over his criticism of Federal Government’s plan to borrow $29.9 billion to fund critical infrastructure projects in the country. The group said the criticism was not only in bad faith, but laced with lies, fallacies and propaganda aimed at hoodwinking Nigerians. Atiku had, on Tuesday, described President Muhammad Buhari’s proposal to borrow the sum of $29.9 billion as an attempt by the current administration to mortgage Nigeria’s future. According to the former vice president, the loan, if approved by the National Assembly, will increase Nigeria’s debt portfolio to the detriment of the economy and future generations. However, the BMO has described Atiku’s comments as an act of desperation to remain relevant and accused him of deploying subterfuge and falsehood to create unnecessary controversies. “Atiku Abubakar made clearer his apparent inability to appreciate the truth when he wrote that article. He forgot so easily that he served as Vice President in the Obasanjo Presidency, during which Nigeria earned over N27 trillion in eight years, from crude oil alone, but for which the country had nothing to show for it. In fact, his government and the subsequent PDP administrations left no legacy project for the Nigerian people that they can today point to. “The only legacy that the Atiku and PDP administrations can point to are corruption cases being prosecuted against them, bad roads, insufficient and ill-equipped hospitals and schools, and neglected institutions – all these are what the President Buhari administration is seeking to turn around with the money it seeks to borrow. “If Atiku and his PDP gang had even done 10 per cent of what the Buhari administration is doing today with its meagre earnings, Nigeria would have been far more developed than it is today. Unfortunately, they chose to squander Nigeria’s resources, and choke the future for coming generations.” The group stated that it was on record that the President Buhari administration had earned the least in oil revenue-about N7 trillion to N8 trillion, compared to the Jonathan administration that earned a whooping N51 trillion and still left the country pathetically under-developed. The group claimed that the Obasanjo administration in which Atiku Abubakar was Vice President received the total sum of $813 million and N1.2 trillion as recoveries from the Abacha loot, but cannot account for how these money were spent. “Today, a vestige of the stink, plunder and immorality of that administration, in the person of Atiku Abubakar, comes out to criticise the Buhari administration’s well-meaning policy to plough back $300 million of recovered Abacha loot for the improvements in the lives of Nigeria’s poorest people. “It is instructive to note, in fact, that the World Bank and the Swiss government had to make the distribution of these funds through the Social Investment Programmes an agreed pre-condition before releasing the funds. This is because of fears that the funds would end up unaccounted for as was the case when Atiku was Vice President of the country. “Atiku obviously lacks a sense of guilt or shame. Being a member of the rapacious gang that ripped off Nigeria’s resources, sold off its assets with nothing to show for it, impoverished the country and gave us bad leadership, it is very shameful that rather than write a letter of apology to Nigerians for the misdeeds of he and his gang members, he authors an article that is hypocritical, untruthful and spiteful,” BMO said. The group also described Atiku’s comments as hypocritical given the fact that he had suggested borrowing as a source of funding projects in his manifesto: “Get Nigeria Working Again” when he campaigned to be President during the 2019 election.