A point of equilibrium is gradually being reached by insurance industry players and stakeholders in real estate sector to ensure adherence to building insurance law. Sunday Ojeme reports   T he worrisome disposition of property owners and developers not taking insurance seriously may soon be a thing of the past considering recent interest taken by developers to work with the National Insurance Commission to make builders do the right thing.   The battle by the insurance industry regulator to get certain properties properly insured in order to protect third parties being the occupiers and site workers, had been a tough task.   Apart from exposing the occupiers to losing their lives and valuables, the failure to get it through has also been denying the industry huge fortunes as regards premium.   Optimism   While NAICOM and the industry operators had pursued the process for long with little or no result, it is, however, heartwarming that  stakeholders in real estate sector have realized the need for building insurance, if only to curtail frequent collapses and other disasters.   Worried by the development and the need to see the process through, the President of Nigerian Institution of  Estate Surveyors and Valuers,  Mr.  Roland  Abonta, advised NAICOM  to enforce law on  mandatory building insurance on all public buildings in the country.   The advice is not just coming from a stakeholer in real estate sector, but an authority capable of working with the insurance regulator to ensure that developers and other property owners play by the rules. Failure to reap  In an industry they have invested over N103 billion in the past years, it remains an irony they have also failed to explore opportunities therein even with the compulsory insurance policy providing them the privilege.   According to the balance sheet, their investment in the sector experienced a boom as it increased by N5 billion from N98.11 billion to N103.51 billion within a period of one year. On a daily basis, hospitals, schools, structures meant for offices, shopping malls, hotels, recreation centres and many more are not just spreading everywhere but also occupied as soon as they are fully ready to be taken or in the case of more desperate situation, the potential tenants pay ahead of completion.   For a country with a population of over 180 million and endowed with the best in terms of human and natural resources, it remains an aberration for the yearly premium to be at N400 billion, going by the last result released by the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA).  As part of efforts to ensure safety and financial security of construction workers and occupiers of public buildings, the Federal Government had instituted the six Compulsory Insurances to among others give Nigerians a sense of belonging and also to boost the nation’s insurance sector’s fortune.   To ensure a reversal of fortune for the best, stakeholders in real estate sector had also called out the insurance regulator to improve on the enforcement of law on building insurance.   Enforcement   Abonta said that enforcement of the law had become imperative  to guard against huge  loss of life and assets associated with building collapse. The NIESV boss said: “The law requires that every public building must be covered by insurance. The insurance covers varied and insurance  firms  know that  the law is based on nature of buildings.”   Abonta maintained that  importance of insurance could not be overemphasised, calling on NAICOM to take the matter seriously  in order to nib incidence of building collapse in the bud. “We need insurance agency,  NAICOM, to take the matter seriously by enforcing the law on public buildings  such as schools and  offices in the interest of Nigerians,” he said. Policies   According to the Occupiers’ Liability Insurance, the policy is taken up against liability of the members of the public for loss or property damage, death or bodily injury occasioned by fire, collapse, storm, earthquake, storm, flood or any allied peril. The cover is required to be purchased by owners or occupiers of every public building. Under the Nigeria Insurance Act 2003, a building is public when the owner does not use it fully (i.e. 100%) for residency purpose.   Examples of public buildings include hostels, tenanted buildings, residential buildings occupied by lodgers, tenants, etc. Also, a public building is one in which people enter and exit for educational, recreational or medical services such as schools, hospitals, malls, etc. A maximum fine of N100,000 or one-year imprisonment or both is the punishment for defaulters. Sealing-off or demolition of the affected building is the sanctions under the National Insurance Act 2003 and the Lagos State Building Control Law 2010.   Apart from Lagos State, which has made efforts in this regard, no concrete report has been given of any other state that is making the law actually compulsory in their domains.   Regulator’s drive   The lack of interest shown by the states propelled the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to open up discussions with state governors on the need to embrace the policy. Under the National Insurance Act 2003, NAICOM has the responsibility of ensuring that public buildings and buildings under construction were insured.   “By public buildings, we mean all schools, hospitals, hotels and offices, and they have the responsibility to show evidence that they have complied with Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003. “We have the responsibility for collecting of funds, monitoring and also disbursing the funds for the purpose of improving fire activities in Nigeria.   “0.25 per cent of premium collected with respect to public buildings are supposed to be accumulated in the fire funds. But over time, these funds have not been forthcoming because the process for collection is not put in place,” he said.   Another important aspect of the policy is the Builders’ Liability Insurance, which provides compensation to victims (workers and the general public) for loss of property, death and bodily injury. This cover is usually taken up by owners or contractors of structures/buildings under construction of more than two floors.  The policy responds when there is building collapse and other risks related to building construction. Under the laws (Federal and Lagos) failure to comply with the policy attracts a penalty of N250,000 in addition to three years’ imprisonment, sealing and demolition of the affected building.   Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, had advised stakeholders in the construction industry to take appropriate steps to ensure compliance with the extant laws so as to put an end to needless loss of lives and property and the resultant problems for the families.   “This is not the time for the blame game but indeed a time for sober reflection and a call to action. Those who are vested with the power to enforce the laws of the land owe it a duty to ensure that laws are obeyed. What is more?  The Lagos State Government had domesticated the law on Insurance of Buildings under construction.  What remains is for the law enforcement agents to enforce the law.   “The nation cannot afford to waste its citizens and its assets given the robust insurance arrangement opportunities provided by the insurance Act 2003. Enough of this waste!  Take Insurance to cover your risks and be assured of better tomorrow in case the unexpected happens,” he said. Last line   Having lost so much ground in the past as far as building insurance is concerned, the time has come for stakeholders in both insurance and real estate sectors to collaborate and ensure construction works are properly supervised with details of insurance also applied religiously.