Truck operators lost over N438 billion to traffic gridlock at port access road in 2019. The truckers said that more than 3,000 containers laden truck were unable to access the port daily to load or offload their containers. They claimed that it cost between N400, 000 and N750,000 to move out a container from the port  because of the gridlock. According to a truck driver, Mr. Lasisi Yinusa, the Yuletide was the worst since the beginning of the year. He said that some of the trucks had been on the port road since last month (November) and could not enter the port because of gridlock and other challenges on the road. Yinusa said that large volume of cargoes were  trapped at the ports, saying that some of the cargoes were imported for Christmas and New Year sales. He said: “Because of the gridlock, cargo delivery has been slowed down and ships were unable to offload containers due to lack of space inside the terminals. I have not moved my vehicle more than 400 metres in three days for a journey of  10 minutes from Ijora.” Another trucker, Ibikunle Aina, said that the gridlock had reached Costain, Iganmu bridge and Eric Moore road in Surulere. He added that the Mile 2 axis of the Apapa Oshodi express road had become a permanent garage for trucks. According to him, this is the major reason the cost of haulage moved up suddenly since last year, saying that the security agents were exploiting the situation to extort money from the drivers. Aina said that the presidential taskforce created to curtail the situation lacked the capacity to address the gridlock; rather, he said that some of them were on the road to make money. Last month, the President of Nigerian Shipowners Association (NISA), Mallam Aminu Umar, said that the gridlock had made several companies to vacate the port environment. Umar said: “Movement in and out of Apapa is getting unpredictable. All what has been achieved in the last few months by the Presidential Committee on Apapa gridlock has vanished suddenly in the last two weeks.” Also, the  Vice President of National Association of Roads Transport Owners (NARTO), Dry Cargo section, Mr Abdullahi Mohammed, said  that  the delay in receiving empty containers by terminal operators and the influx of tankers had impeded smooth trade facilitation at the seaports. According to him, oil tank farm depots around the ports are also contributing to the problem of the ports. Mohammed said: “I can say there are three factors that are responsible for the sudden resurface of gridlock along the corridors, which have affected many links roads. So it makes the movement of trucks accessing the truck park/port difficult.” He stressed that no serious palliative measures had been taken by the road contractor from Coconut to Mile 2 axis as promised by the government.