…says African leaders have developed dangerous taste for borrowing  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo yesterday warned the Federal Government against bequeathing debts to future generations while faulting African leaders’ penchant for debt acquisition. Apparently speaking against the latest attempt by the Federal Government to obtain N30 billion loan, Obasanjo, who gave the warning at an event in Lagos, implied that he was taken aback on the recent request for the $30 billion loan. “My biggest worry is that, with the scale of debts we are walking into with our eyes wide open, there are already fiscal challenges to meet our obligations. “The current situation where we are already spending significant percentage of our budget on debt servicing and another chunk on recurrent expenditure, leaving very little or nothing for capital investments is not a durable and sustainable approach to development and progress. “I fear for the future we are bequeathing to our children and to their children and their children’s children. I believe that it will be foolhardy, irresponsible and wicked for us to tie a mill stone of debt around the neck of the successor generations of Nigerians. “We need to take hard and important decisions that will facilitate a balanced allocation of resources to both capital and recurrent expenditures.” While noting that the trend had become a dangerous one in Africa, the former president warned that the action of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration will have a tremendous impact on not just the West African sub-continent, but on the continent of Africa as a whole. He said: “This warning alarm is also very important in light of Nigeria’s pivotal position on the continent. Any headwind in Nigeria has tremendous impact on not just the West African but the continent as a whole. “Nigeria accounts for nearly 20 per cent of continental GDP and about 75 per cent of the West Africa economy. “Nigeria’s leadership was key in the campaign for debt relief in the late 90s/early 2000s. Our relapse into debt will be wrong signalling to the rest of the continent and could be tantamount to backing the entire continent into another era of Highly Indebted Poor Countries. “There is a dangerous emerging trend today in Africa and it is eerily familiar with developments on the continent in the 70s. Our political leaders have suddenly developed not just a taste for, but a voracious appetite for debt. “As usual most of such debts that are procured are hardly thought through. Predictably, ability to repay such debts is lacking. “Unfortunately for us and unlike in the past, the new creditors are less tolerant of our limitations and inadequacies and are now demanding to manage institutions and agencies with a view to recouping their loans. “We can extrapolate from this to decide the future impact on our already compromised sovereign existence. Current prognosis suggests that things might really get worse. The invitation and the choice of the topic for this gathering couldn’t have been timelier. “In this case, the issue of Nigeria rapidly sinking under the weight of debt; both foreign and domestic, should bother us all. “Let me state at the onset that using debt to finance growth and or development is a double-edged sword that must be wielded with a high degree of discipline, responsibility and foresight. A well calibrated debt for infrastructure and other developmental goals could be very positive. “However, we do not need to speculate. We need to examine our historical experience. Everyone knows that our governments are notoriously deficient in serious and adequate discipline and most often lack competence and consistency as well.” Obasanjo, who also dwelled on recent happenings in some states, such as Lagos, Rivers and Cross River, noted that the attitude of abandoning projects of previous regimes by successive governments is an anomaly that should not be encouraged at all levels of government. Using the Lagos experience as example, he said: “we borrowed to build a light rail in Lagos, embarked on the project and a succeeding governor abandoned the project for his full term of four years at 65 per cent completion when it should have started paying down on the loan. Obasanjo said: “This light rail is important for the whole of Nigeria not only with respect to man hours of GDP that would have continued to be saved but also because such loans are normally federally guaranteed. At the same time, there are bus terminals that were presidentially declared open but not used. “This type of situation was not in Lagos alone but variously in other States like Rivers and Cross River. And the problem is not limited to states.