 The Federal Government has assured that it will adequately supply petroleum products across the country during and after the Yuletide season, to avoid scarcity. Group Managing Director (GMD), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari, stated this after a stakeholders’ meeting on supply of petroleum products during the Yuletide season, presided over by the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari. Speaking to State House Correspondents, Kyari said: “We are very sure today that we have very robust supply plan not just for Christmas, but beyond. We are assuring Nigerians that the NNPC has made adequate arrangement to make adequate supply of petroleum products. “If there are issues, we have come together with other agencies of government to ensure those issues are resolved to ensure Nigerians have a very Merry Christmas this year.” The GMD noted that the meeting was also to take stock of readiness for the festive period, particularly in terms of supply and distribution of petroleum products across the country. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said his ministry has also met with its contractors and directed them to provide some palliative measures to ease the movement of trucks and tankers. Some of these routes include Benin-Auchi-Okene, Warri-Sapele-Benin, Ilorin-Jebba road, Calabar-Itu road and other roads. Fashola said: “This is essentially to say we are giving everybody the support we can to ease the problem of moving fuel during the period.” In his remarks, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Muhammed Adamu, noted that December was a festive period, during which Nigerians in the diaspora will be returning to their homeland with their families. “We have heightened the level of security within this period, not only the police but other security agencies are working together to ensure that the Christmas and even the New Year is celebrated without any criminal incidents. “At the same time, Nigerians will have to move about freely with the availability of petroleum. And for that reason the NNPC and the petroleum transport owners association, NUPENG and others have come together to work with us to make sure that products are moved freely to cover the whole country without any breach. “In that area, we have again increased the level of security, dedicated some officers to make sure that products are moved freely without any attempt to divert same from where they are supposed to go. We have gotten commitment also from tanker drivers that we will work seriously with their drivers to make sure that nobody incites them or motivates them to divert products from where they are supposed to go. “So, we are assuring Nigerians that this Christmas will be crime-free, petroleum products will be available to everybody and it will move from one part of the country to the other,” he added.