T he Kogi State Government has carpeted the recent National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) report claiming the state is the most corrupt in Nigeria as a “dubious attempt to blackmail and blacklist the state by those scared by her rising economic profile and opportunities”.   The Director General of Media and Publicity to the State Governor, Kingsley Fanwo raised the allegation while briefing newsmen in Abuja on Saturday, saying the Bureau has lost the “little credibility left in it”. He said the state government will soon come with facts to challenge the false report by the NBS.   “How can we be the most corrupt state when we have institutionalized strong mechanisms to check fraud in the system? It is unfortunate that the Bureau just looked through its office windows to cook the discredited report. “In the last 47 months, we have strengthened our internal mechanisms to combat corruption in the system. We undertook a strenuous Staff Verification Exercise to exorcise corruption from our civil service.   “The state government has since digitalized the Civil Service. We granted autonomy to the tax administrative board, changing the name from the Board of Internal Revenue to the Kogi State Internal Revenue Service. Today, the Service is led by one of the most respected hands in the industry, leading to opening new vistas for higher revenue as a result of managerial innovations and blockage of leakages in the system. “Our accounting and auditing administration have been digitalized and made to be more effective, efficient and dynamic.  “Sitting in their offices at the Central Business District in the FCT to write fiction will not be accepted by the Kogi State Government. We are the most transparent state in the federation and deserves an award for that.” Fanwo questioned the indices leading to the unfortunate conclusions, saying nobody came to ask questions from relevant authorities in the state.   He said if NBS fails to provide the parameters for the rating, the state government may have no choice than to seek legal redress to save the name of the state.