The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) said it would deal decisively with marketers and distributors of unhygienic and unapproved vegetable oil. The Director General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye who issued the warning at NAFDAC stakeholders meeting with marketers and distributors of vegetable oil in Lagos last week, similarly alerted the populace that there was health risks in the consumption of unhygienic products. Adeyeye who was represented by Simidele Onabajo, NAFDAC’s deputy director in charge of Food Registration and Regulation Directorate, lamented the high level adulteration of vegetable oil, especially palm oil which was on going in the country, saying it often resulted in health challenges among the populace. Adeyeye said using soap and water to  wash used chemical containers, tanks and jerrycans for the sale and storage of vegetable oil was not acceptable, stressing that the rising cases of kidney problems in the country could be linked to the kind of foods people consume. Urging the marketers to desist from practices that were injurious to health, Adeyeye said: “We have called you for this meeting so that you know how to give quality and safe vegetable oil to consumers. You need to change your mindset and think about safety first.” The meeting, which brought together marketers and distributors of vegetable oil across the various states of the federation, was geared to educate affected persons on the standard procedures of handling the products to achieve safety standard. Also, speaking during the event, NAFDAC’s Director, Food Safety and Applied Nutrition  (FSAN), Mr Olagunju Sherif said the consumption of unhygienic products could lead to diseases like cancer, the damage of internal organs including the kidney, which may result in fatality. Sherif said NAFDAC would no longer tolerate the sale and distribution of edible oil that was not fortified with Vitamin A. He explained, “We have a lot of issues concerning people who are selling these products.  You know vegetable oil is a special product and it is one of the vehicles through which the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) was using to resolve vitamin A deficiency we are having in the country. “So vegetable oil is required to be fortified with vitamin A before it can be sold. So, all vegetable oil sold in Nigeria needs to be fortified with vitamin A.” He also warned against the transportation of products with any type of truck or plastic containers aside from the ones approved by the Federal Government. Sherif further raised the alarm over the adulteration of palm oil saying that some distributors and marketers adulterate palm oil with artificial colouring. He said, “We are trying to tell them that they should not artificially import colours in the oils, especially colours that are not food-grade colours some of which could cause cancer, liver and kidney damage.