• Kidney health is everybody’s business –Prof. Awobusuyi • ‘Burden of Kidney disease is alarming’ • Kidney Trust Fund will reduce burden of kidney disease  At the launch of St. Remmy Foundation Kidney Trust Fund in Lagos, Sunday Telegraph learnt that in Nigeria, where patients pay out of pocket for kidney dialysis, the cost of standard care for a typical patient is over N500, 000.00 per month for regular maintenance haemodialysis and thus, experts harped on the need for a collaborative efforts to stem deaths caused by Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) in Nigeria. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports   Nephrologists and other experts at the official launch of Kidney Trust Fund by St. Remmy Foundation harped on the need for collaborative efforts of the government, corporate institutions and private individuals to curtail the menace of kidney disease in the country.  The medical experts held that the kidney disease is associated with a tremendous economic burden, saying that high-income countries typically spend over 3% of their annual healthcare budget on the treatment of endstage kidney disease, though those receiving such treatment represent under 0.03% of the total population. According to the Foundation, St. Remmy Foundation Kidney Care Trust Fund is an initiative to gather funds to finance carefully  articulated activities that would be very beneficial to all in order to tackle kidney disease in the country. In his welcome address at the event, the Coordinator/ Trustee, St. Remmy Foundation, Mr. Obetta Remigius, said kidney health is everybody’s business to ensure that lives are not lost to avoidable situation like kidney failure. He appealed to media houses present at the event to help spread the news and appeal to their respective organisation to support one patient to have transplant after presenting a total of seven patients with CKD waiting for transplant.  He also appealed to the reporters to pick one patient and write about with a view to attracting government, corporate organisations or philanthropist who would support the patient’s kidney transplant and dialysis.  “It is my pleasure to welcome you all, on behalf of my team to this event of unveiling our Kidney Care Trust Fund. Presently, kidney disease prevalence is a worry to humanity and we must join hands together to fight this scourge,” he quipped.  According to global records, one in every 10 persons has a form of kidney disease or the other and appreciable percentage of Nigerian population is affected with this ailment, saying that the socio – economic consequences of kidney related disease are unimaginable, hence the need for drastic and collaborative actions to curtail its excesses.  According to Prof. Isaac Adewole, former Minister, Federal Ministry of Health, during the flag off of this Kidney Care Project on Thursday October 12, 2017 at National Ecumenical Centre, Central Business District, Abuja, the disease needs collaborative efforts stem its tide.  He said: “It is very obvious that this disease needs to be tamed with full collaboration with government and community at large, with emphasis on prevention, early detection and intervention, prompt treatment to prevent progression, while in advanced cases, dialysis and early transplants should be made feasible “Substantial action should be taken by each state to reduce poverty, increase equity, improve nutrition, advance education, and develop health services and human resources.  “It’s of essence to know that this project is all about humanity, which we are part of and sequel to this, I humbly request that we make whatever contributions we can towards this efforts of saving lives.” Speaking further, a professor of Medicine and a consultant Nephrologist at the Lagos State University College of Medicine, Ikeja, Lagos State, Prof. Jacob Awobusuyi said there is, indeed, need for collaborative efforts to curtail the excesses of socioeconomic implications of kidney disease in Nigeria  He said, “The socioeconomic implications of kidney disease and the need for collaborative efforts to curtail its excesses. Hypertension, diabetes, HIV, obesity and family history are the major causes and risk factors in kidney failure.” He noted that Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) has become more common with increasing age, saying that after the age of 40, kidney filtration begins to fall by approximately 1% per year.  On top of the natural aging of the kidneys, he said many conditions, which damage the kidneys are more common in older people including diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease. Sunday Telegraph learnt that about one in five men and one in four women between the ages of 65 and 74, and half of people aged 75 or more are estimated to have CKD. He said: “The older you get the more likely you are to have some degree of kidney disease. This is important because CKD increases the risk of heart attack and stroke, and in some cases can progress to kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplantation.  “Regardless of your age, simple treatments can slow down the progression of kidney disease, prevent complications and improve quality of life. Sometimes the cause of the kidney failure can be painful. “An example is the ingestion of Diethylene glycol contaminated teething syrup (My Pikin) by children in 2008 which resulted in the death of hundreds of children nationwide.” He noted that this large-scale catastrophic event could have been prevented if adherence to the best manufacturing standards of practice guidelines had been followed by the manufacturer of the product.  He continued: “World Kidney Day Campaign is celebrated on the second Thursday of March every year and it aims at increasing awareness of the importance of our kidneys to our health and of reducing the impact of kidney disease and its associated problems worldwide. “Kidney disease is associated with a tremendous economic burden. In 2015, in the United States of America, for example, Medicare expenditures on end-stage kidney disease was more than 34 billion Dollars.  “In Nigeria where patients pay out of pocket for dialysis, the cost of standard care for a typical patient is more than N500, 000.00 monthly for regular maintenance haemodialysis.   “This is definitely out of reach for majority of people in the country and more than 90% of people with End- Stage Kidney Disease  die within one year of starting dialysis treatment.” The World Health Organisation has defined quality of life as an individual’s perception of his or her position in life in the context of the culture and value systems in which they live and in relation to their goals, expectations, standards, and concerns.  He continued: “Quality of life is affected in a complex way by the person’s physical health, psychological state, personal beliefs and social relationships. Health-related quality of life reflects the welfare of a patient based on aspects of functional status (including physical, mental, and social factors) and a relative balance of expectations and experiences in the face of changing health.  “Assessment of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) has evolved with treatment advances so that the expectation of patient outcomes has grown from simple survival to achieving a sense of well-being. “Health-related quality of life has been assessed in CKD using multidimensional measures that capture information about function and well-being across predefined domains that are thought to be relevant to an overall assessment of HRQoL.  “These studies have consistently shown that the quality of life of patients with kidney disease is a lot poorer that of the population and that this perceived reduction in the quality of life starts early in the disease and progressively worsens as the disease progresses.”  According to the Nephrologist, the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2015 study estimated that 19 million Disability-adjusted lifeyears (DALYs) and 18 million years of life lost from cardiovascular diseases were directly attributable to reduction in kidney function. Awobusuyi added: “Judging from the foregoing discussions on the effects of Kidney diseases on various functions of the individual and their environment, it is obvious that kidney diseases place heavy socio-economic burden on individuals, families and societies.   “Premature deaths, for instance, can leave families with significant economic loss from incurred medical expenditures, and from the loss of a contributing household member. “It is imperative therefore, for all stake holders to appreciate the enormity of the burden of kidney diseases in our society and take a definitive action towards its prevention, and alleviation of the suffering of the individuals afflicted by renal diseases.   According to St. Remmy Foundation’s Ambassador, who has already had a kidney transplant on him, Prince Ifeanyi Dike, the impact of the devastating effects of kidney diseases is felt across all sectors. He said: “The conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work, and play – the social determinants of health are all affected by the devastating effects of kidney disease.  “The costs of managing the diseases to individuals, families, and communities are also high. Treating End-Stage renal disease with dialysis or transplantation often leads to catastrophic spending, which robs wage earners of the ability to provide for their families. “Leaving the kidney disease patients and their families alone will not produce the gains in their health status and improvement in health care delivery for managing kidney failure that we all want to see.  Hence there is a need for joint intervention to reduce the menace of this killer disease. “We need to develop strategic approaches that would generate the much- needed resources for the care of patients with kidney diseases. There is a need to have a renewed focus on primary care, awareness raising and education including patient empowerment and cross-specialty training.   “Advocate for the integration of CKD prevention into national NCD programmes for comprehensive and integrated services, which are essential in improving the early detection and tracking of CKD at country level.   “There is a need to develop a whole-ofgovernment, whole-of-society, health in all policies, multisectoral collaboration to promote prevention and management of kidney disease.”