…generates N20bn revenue in 3 years  The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) yesterday declared that it was ready to deploy drones in all its centres to check examination malpractice. This was as it also declared that the agency had generated N20 billion between 2016 and 2019. JAMB Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, disclosed this at a meeting with Computer-Based Test (CBT) centre operators, state coordinators of the board, financial institutions and Internet service providers in Zaria, Kaduna State. Oloyede said JAMB was a transparent government agency as the planned deployment of drone cameras in the 700 examination centres was to check activity that would jeopardise the transparent efforts of the board. Oloyede, who was specifically addressing CBT centre operators from across the country, charged them not to worry about their investments while transacting business with the board, urging them to do the right thing in the discharge of their duties to the board. He said: “You have nothing to fear and you should know that, if you put your investments together, it can’t be up to N20 billion and we have accrued N20 billion in the last three years as an agency. “As an agency of government, we have to ensure that small and medium scale businesses strive and if you multiply 11 staff by 700, you will know better. We are also adding value to the economy and creating jobs, bailing people out of your employment market and we will continue to support you once you are doing your work well.” “All CCTV must be wired, camera must cover verification areas, coding areas, walkways, examination hall, server room and entrance and exit in all centres. We will use drones to monitor the centres. “100 candidates caught red-handed are under prosecution, 20 jailed and 80 others still under investigation. “Last year was for the prosecution of candidates. By the grace of God, it is the turn of CBT centres to be prosecuted. If you do your work well, it will reduce the cost of running from one court to the other.