Will the public apology tendered by ex-Governor Ayodele Fayose appease feuding members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State ahead of the 2022 governorship election in the state? WALE ELEGBEDE asks  F ormer governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, is one man with gut and audacity. For all he attained in politics, he had to literally jump from valleys to mountains. Nothing came cheap for him in politics and like his name, Peter, which means “the Rock,” he has weathered several political storms the hard way since he made incursion into politics in 2003.   During his first and second foray as governor of Ekiti State, Fayose was a headline grabber and this was due to his brash and off the cuffs disposition. He also cut a perfect description of a mass mobiliser of the grassroots through his widely touted stomach infrastructure approach to governance. For him, wining and dining with the masses is all what governance is all about.  Riding on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during his two-term as governor, the party, however, suffered a setback following Fayose’s failure to push his then deputy, Prof Olusola Eleka, to succeed him at the 2018 governorship election in the state.   Sequel to the failed bid to the incumbent, Dr. Kayode Fayemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the PDP naturally moved into an intractable feud among its hierarchy, and it came in a most astonishing manner. The bad blood within the party, which was a carryover from the disputed primaries that produced Eleka as PDP flag bearer, pitched two former allies who were once first and second citizens of the state against one another. Fayose and his erstwhile deputy, Senator Abiodun Olujimi, held both ends of the PDP stick in the state.   Olujimi was once a special adviser and deputy governor in the administration of Fayose. She also got the senatorial ticket to represent Ekiti South during Fayose’s era.   Olujimi, the former Senate Minority leader, was one of those who objected to Fayose’s choice of Eleka as PDP candidate in 2018, but with his daring influence, the then governor succeeded after a tensed politicking. However, it was on the day of the primary election that Olujimi stepped down for Dayo Adeyeye, who lost to Eleka.   Aftermath of the loss of the governorship election in 2018, it became apparent that Fayose has lost the leadership of the party because Senator Olujimi as the Senate Minority Leader became the highest political office holder from Ekiti State PDP.   Adeyeye later defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC), where he slugged it out with Olujimi for the senatorial seat during the 2019 elections. The APC candidate was announced winner of the Ekiti South election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), but Olujimi approached the National Assembly Election Petition Tribunal, which nullified Adeyeye’s victory, The Court of Appeal also affirmed the decision of the lower court, thereby returning Olujimi as a senator.   Interestingly, the scuffle between Fayose and Olujimi for the soul of the state PDP started manifesting even before 2019 general elections as both gladiators clashed on who becomes the arrowhead of the party’s presidential candidate’s campaign in the state. In the run up to the 2019 presidential election, both Fayose and Olujimi, inaugurated parallel campaign councils for the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar.   Fayose, in his capacity as the South West Coordinator of the PDP campaign, inaugurated his own council members, while Olujimi, as the highest ranked political office holder in the state then, inaugurated a parallel campaign council.  During the same electioneering period, Olujimi accused her ex-principal of plotting to work against her re-election. Olujimi, in a statement by her Special Assistant on Media, Chief Sanya Atofarati, said: “Fayose is being haunted by his wicked and failed past. It is sad and shameful that a (former) governor who could not produce his successor in an election despite the resources available to him is living on past glory. Senator Olujimi is a tested product that nobody can destroy nor distaste.”   However, responding to the senator’s claim, Fayose’s spokesperson, Mr. Lere Olayinka, said the fight between his principal and Olujimi was not a personal one as both of them are not on the same level politically. He added that what was at stake was Olujimi’s actions, which he described as provocative and geared towards undermining Fayose’s quest of having a united and stronger PDP in Ekiti State.  “Olujimi has been romancing enemies of the PDP in Ekiti to further injure the party. This is the issue and on the election day, we will vote Atiku and other PDP candidates except her,” Olayinka said.  As if that was not enough, just after the Supreme Court judgement on the Ekiti governorship election that went against the PDP, Olujimi taunted both Fayose and Eleka for allegedly destroying the chances of the party in the state and asked them to cover their faces in shame.  She said: “We told them but they wouldn’t listen. How do you expect Fayose’s stooge who is not even conversant with politics to win at the polls not to talk of the Supreme Court? He (Fayose) destroyed the party by fielding an unsellable and unpopular candidate.”  In another instance before the general elections, some members of the party loyal to Olujimi under the auspices of PDP Stakeholders Forum also moved to dissolve the Gboyega Oguntuase-led State Working Committee, which is loyal to Fayose.  Among those in that plot at the time were Dr. Sikiru Tae-Lawal; a former Speaker and Acting Governor, Tunji Odeyemi; former Deputy Speaker, Segun Adewumi; a former chairman, Bola Oluojo; a former PDP Secretary, Dr. Tope Aluko and a former governorship aspirant, Yinka Akerele.  Speaking recently about her former boss, Olujimi said: “I played an unforgettable role in Fayose emergence as Ekiti governor. I helped Fayose back to the party. I was going to contest the governorship before he came. “When he came, he could not come into the party, the party said no way. He came to me and said please, help, let’s work together. Let me come back into the party if we win and then, you will determine what you want. But for him to now come out and say I made Olujimi this and that is a blatant falsehood.  “We are both benefactors to each other. Although I was nominated under him as party candidate for Senate, but before then, I played a significant role in ensuring his emergence as the party flag bearer in the first and second term.”  For many analysts, the purported campaign against Olujimi’s reelection and the ensuing political battle against her by Fayose and his supporters, are just about nothing, but the politics of 2022 PDP governorship ticket in the state. They averred that Olujimi appears to be strategically positioned to nip the ticket, just as Fayose wants to determine the party’s flag bearer which may likely be Eleka.  Based on the principle of rotation, Ekiti South Senatorial District, where Olujimi and Eleka hail from might produce the candidates of both the PDP and APC in 2022. Both leading parties have had governors emerging twice from both Central and North senatorial districts of the state.  But giving a different shade to the crisis last week at a reconciliation meeting he held with party members and leaders, including former political office holders, former and present party officials from ward to state levels at his Afao Ekiti residence in the Irepodun/Ifelodun Council area of the state, Fayose sought understanding and genuine reconciliation among all leaders and members of the party in the state in the interest of repositioning the party for future elections.  Fayose, at the meeting, said he is seeking understanding and genuine reconciliation among all leaders and members of the PDP in the state in the interest of repositioning the party for future elections.  The former governor said: “What is crucial is for all of us to come together in the interest of the party. I am not contesting any election again, but I do not want the ladder that brought us up destroyed. I want us to reclaim the governorship. It is my duty to ensure that the party does not fail. “Senator Olujimi, Senator Faseyi and Chief Oguntuwase should not be angry. I am sorry if I had offended them. I do not have to fight for the leadership of the party. Majority of those people dividing this party do so for selfish reasons. They do so for the purpose of what they stand to gain from the leaders.   “We are on a mission to reposition the party because truly we need a new attitude as members of this party. We must tell ourselves the truth that there is nothing to share in failure and we must join hands to achieve something tangible. “I know some persons are aggrieved and I know we are humans. I apologise to all those that I have offended. Let us come together in unity for this our party not to die in this state. That is my priority as a leader. “I am doing this one year after I left office just to allow the present All Progressives Congress government to display what they have for the people and you can all see for yourselves. I am not here for my selfish interest, but just to ensure this party does not fail.  “Everybody should come back to the party. I am open to reconciliation. If Senator Biodun Olujimi calls you for a meeting tomorrow, go there and listen to her. All of us are leaders. Don’t let us factionalise this party. I am congratulating her and I don’t have any issue with her and I am sorry for what happened in the past.” The former governor said vibrant, viable and competent members were free to contest for party offices in the next year’s congress, advising that it would be better for those who were financially stable to occupy the leadership positions in the party. Fayose said the PDP ought not to have participated in the recently held local government election in the state, adding that, “I told the party not to participate in the local government election. The All Progressives Congress had not been participating in such. “When Chief Segun Oni conducted local government elections here, they did not participate. They did not participate in the local government elections that I conducted. Even when we conducted national elections, we saw what the APC did, much more local government elections. “We ought not to parade our best for such a sham they called election. It is unfortunate we even lost a member to an election we ought not to have participated in.” Among PDP leaders at the meeting were Eleka; a former PDP deputy governorship candidate, Deji Ogunsakin; a former Commissioner for Environment, Chief Bisi Kolawole and former House of Assembly Information Committee Chairman, Dr. Samuel Omotosho. On the face value, Fayose appears to have come clean on the PDP crisis and as the saying goes, once a guilty person knows and admits that he is guilty; delivering judgement becomes an easy task, however, some political analysts opine that the remorse might not be genuine but a smokescreen for the ex-governor to relaunch his fresh tactics.  As it is, only time will tell how the Ekiti PDP crisis pans out.