From nowhere, a ray of light has shone on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State as a validly elected executive council was inaugurated after years of leadership crisis. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE asks whether the Adedeji Doherty-led leadership can turn the tide for the party in the state  The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has never been out of crisis for once, since the return of democracy in 1999. Expectedly, the crisis dovetailed into its performances in the elections and after every election cycle, the party disperses and congregates again just before another election year. For party members and supporters, the trend of heaping up crisis in the party after every election and starting all over again to rebuild for another election cycle is both worrisome and demoralizing for the progress of the party. All of its six different attempts to seize the governorship seat of Lagos State have been futile. From 1999 when the party fielded a former minister, Chief Dapo Sarumi against Senator Bola Tinubu till last March 9 election when its candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, ate the humble pie from Mr Jide Sanwoolu of the All Progressives Congress (APC), it’s the same old story of playing second fiddle. The cookies crumbled again after the 2019 election as the two major influencers in the party, former Deputy National Chairman of the party, Chief Olabode George and its candidate, exchanged words over the loss of the party at the polls despite the seeming crisis of succession in the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). But while the two forces are still settling their scores, the party’s National Headquarters, beamed its searchlight to see who can lead the affairs of the party in the state since the interim position of the acting Chairman, Dr. Dominic Adegbola, has lapsed after its timeline of three months. Adegbola, a grassroots politician who became the party’s chairman following the defection of the party’s erstwhile chairman, Hon. Moshood Salvador, to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), was however, asked by the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) to handover affairs of the party to the National Vice Chairman of the PDP South West, Dr. Eddy Olafeso. Last November, a notice of election was issued by the NWC to the party in the state. Expectedly, leaders and members of the party see the call differently. In fact, 24-hours before the scheduled date for the election, some members of the party in the state secured a court injunction from a Lagos High Court ordering all parties in the suit to maintain the status quo ahead of the proposed special election. Regardless of the injunction, the party proceeded with its plan and the Senator Ben Obi-led three-man committee from the National Working Committee (NWC) conducted the election to fill some vacant positions in the party’s state executive. The election produced Engr. Doherty as chairman of the party after garnering 27 votes to defeat his closest rival, Omotanwa Kudirat, who polled 21 votes. According to Senator Obi, the election had 68 delegates approved by NWC of the party but only 45 delegates voted at the election which took place at L’eola Hotel, Maryland. Apart from Obi, members of the three-man committee included Muktar Ahmed, as secretary and Senator Biodun Olujimi, member, who was unavoidably absent, because she was engaged with her swearing-in ceremony at the Senate, having got  Appeal Court judgement in her favour. Two weeks after the election, the party gathered again to inaugurate the newly-elected officials and this time, it came with fanfare as a handful of party members joined the party leadership at the event held in Lagos. Conducting the inauguration on behalf of the NWC, Olafeso, congratulated the newly elected executive committee members who were elected to fill vacant slots in the state which came about from death, resignation or defection from the party to other political parties. He said: “I commend all of you who participated in the process of peace that we have today.” Olafeso, who reiterated that peace has finally returned to Lagos, said he had to visit Lagos State for about 67 times in his quest to find peace for the party in the state, he, however, said his current visit which is to attend the inauguration of the executive is his happiest. “I commend you because you have fought a long and hard battle, it has not been easy. I commend all of you who participated in the process of peace that we have today. “I am forever grateful for leaders like Chief Bode George and leaders of his generation and the foundation they had laid and for all the other leaders. We are happy to build on it. “The South-West is at a crossroad, but this is a time for a new beginning indeed and with peace in Lagos State, it is the beginning of a new thing in the South-West. The challenges in the country today is enormous, there is a need for all of us to be united and I appeal to all of you to join hands with Doherty to take the party to new height,” he said. Doherty was inaugurated alongside Sowole Jubril as state party vice-chairman (central senatorial district), Adejumo Ajagbe (Vice Chairman West), Prince Balogun Okanlawon (Lagos Island), Mrs. Ambode Linda (Kosofe LGA), Amode Akeem (organising secretary), Adeniyi Rotimi (assistant organising secretary), Muyideen Tejumade (legal adviser), Olalekan Akeem (assistant legal adviser), Olayinka Dada (assistant secretary), Kolawole Mike (party chairman, Apapa Local Government Area) and Akojemu Florence (party chairman, Badagry LGA). In his inaugural speech after being sworn-in, Doherty said the PDP in the state is now well-positioned to wrestle power from the APC in 2023, saying that the state presently needs the PDP to experience development. “Our democratic journey in Lagos over the past 20 years has been a tedious one, which has been marred with one problem or other which has led us to failures at every council, gubernatorial and presidential elections in the past.” Giving insights on how he emerged as the party’s chairman, Doherty said that the failure of the party to win Lagos since 1999 created a serious concern for the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, who then decided to create a fact finding committee headed by Senator Ben Obi to look for a long-lasting solution to the division and crises in the party. “This committee met with all our leaders and stakeholders and finally came up with recommendations to the NWC for onward action and implementation at the state level. The recommendation was simple, that is , that all vacancies at every level of the Lagos State structure must be filled according to the constitution and not by nomination, imposition or the use of any sharing formula. “It was this bold step taken by the Prince Uche Secondus-led NWC that has finally given birth to the new dawn in our party today. Having said this, I would like to thank the major actors in this process, who ensured that this decision by the NWC became a reality,” Doherty explained. The new PDP chairman outlined a seven-point agenda through which his leadership would rebuild the party in the state, saying, “I plead with our aggrieved members who are in various cases in court to give peace a chance. The 65 per cent, 35 per cent sharing formula used in the past hereby comes to an end, PDP Lagos State will start afresh, we are one family and the party remains supreme.” Congratulating the newly inaugurated executive, a former factional chairman of the PDP in the state, Mr. Segun Adewale, popularly called Aeroland said “PDP is the one winning elections for APC in Lagos State, APC doesn’t win any election, PDP wins for APC, they know that the only person working in APC is Tinubu, he is the only one and he can’t be everywhere, so the moment we have the right people at the polling booth we will win the election. “What normally happens is that over 60 per cent of our polling booth agents work for APC, so we can’t win, but if we talk to him and he listens and we have the right people at the polling booths winning election in 2023 is done. “How can you have almost 20 million voters and in the last election the present governor won by 880,000 votes, less than a million, that shows that there is apathy against APC, so for APC to win they have to plant their men inside us and that is what I have been fighting for in the last five years, but now we have the opportunity to savage the party through Deji Doherty, all we need to do is to rally round him and the moment we do that we don’t even need to campaign,” he said. While it may not yet be Uhuru for the PDP in Lagos, political analysts are only curious how the newly inaugurated executive will bring all hands on deck to change the political trajectory of the party.