 A total of 159 suspected illicit drug traffickers were arrested in Enugu state in the last 11 months by the Enugu State Command of the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).  The command also said that no fewer than 59 drug traffickers were convicted within the same period while others were at various stages of prosecution.  The NDLEA State Commander, Mr Adeyemi  Adeofe, gave the hint on yesterday in Enugu during its end-of-the-year campaign against drug abuse and illicit drug trafficking.  Adeofe said that the command recorded tremendous achievements in its efforts at reducing the scourge of drug abuse within the period under review.  He said that the command seized 2.379kg of cannabis sativa, 100kg of ephedrine, 836 grams of methamphetamine and 78. 93 grams of cocaine within the period. “We also discovered and dismantled a clandestine laboratory used in the production of methamphetamine,” he said.  Adeofe said that drug abuse had become a major social, health, economic and psychological problem in the country.  The commander urged youths to stay away from drug abuse and trafficking in order to safeguard their future.  In a goodwill message, Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi pledged the support of the state government in curbing illicit drug trafficking and abuse in the state.  Ugwuanyi, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Mr Uwakwe Azikiwe, said that the rating of the state in drug abuse chart in the South East was not encouraging. “Enugu State wants to be known for something positive and we shall give the command our maximum support to achieve this,” he said.  The governor, however, said that prevention of drug abuse was the responsibility of all including parents, society and peer groups. Ugwuanyi urged the youths not to succumb to the temptation of peddling or abusing drugs.  Similarly, the command’s Principal Staff Officer, Drug Demand and Reduction, Mr Eyeuche Adjai, said that efforts had been made to reduce drug abuse in the South East. He said that 33 drug addicts were rehabilitated by the command within the period.  “Enugu command is doing all that is possible to redress the problem of drug abuse not only in the town but in localities, as well as the entire South East,” Adjai said.