Greta Thunberg, the soft-spoken Swedish teenager who became a global conscience for climate change and environmental activism, has been named Time’s Magazine’s Person of the Year for 2019. The magazine announced 16-year old Thunberg as its choice Wednesday exclusively on “TODAY.” “She became the biggest voice on the biggest issue facing the planet this year, coming from essentially nowhere to lead a worldwide movement,” Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal told “TODAY,” adding that Thunberg is the magazine’s youngest choice ever to be named Person of the Year, reports NBC News. Thunberg quickly bloomed into one of the world’s most notable and youngest climate change activists, sparking a collective movement to fight climate change after protesting alone outside the Swedish parliament during school hours on Fridays when she was 15. The teen held up a now universally recognized hand-painted sign that read “skolstrejk för klimatet,” which translates to “School strike for the climate.” Thunberg’s initiative to strike galvanized students to protest against climate change throughout Europe and that momentum quickly fanned across the globe, becoming the “Fridays For Future” movement. Her solo protest, Fensenthal noted, eventually prompted millions of people in 150 countries “to act on behalf of the planet.” He also said that Thunberg “represents a broader generational shift in the culture,” with youth standing up for what they believe in — from Hong Kong to Chile. “Young people are demanding change, and urgently,” Felsenthal said. “She embodies youth activism.” Thunberg’s signature no-nonsense blunt style of speaking made her a force that could not be ignored by world leaders and she was asked to speak in front of several high-profile entities, including the United Nations and the United States Congress. Thunberg, who has Asperger’s syndrome, first learned about climate change at 8 years old and said she became instantly concerned to the point that she plunged into depression over it. “I remember thinking that it was very strange that humans that are an animal species, among others, could be capable of changing the Earth’s climate,” she said during a 2018 Ted Talk. She gave up eating meat and traveling via airplane, among other things, to reduce her carbon footprint. In October, Thunberg was the recipient of another honor — an environmental award at a Stockholm ceremony held by the Nordic Council. But she declined it, explaining in an Instagram post, “The climate movement does not need any more awards.” “What we need is for our politicians and the people in power start to listen to the current, best available science,” she wrote. 