It was dancing galore yesterday for civil servants in Delta State as news broke out that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has approved the commencement of payment of the new minimum wage to workers in the state from this month (December). This was as the governor earmarked N18 billion to CCECC Limited and Levante Construction Limited respectively at the cost of N9.5 billion each for the construction of six major storm drainage to tackle the yearly flooding challenges in Warri and Uvwie areas of the state. The governor disclosed this while inspecting the Ifiebor Street Road project in Warri, and the construction of the Okere-Urhobo, as well as the construction of concrete paved Dimony Street at Okumagba Layout in Warri; ongoing construction of Ifiebor Street with side drains and classroom blocks at Okere-Urhobo Secondary School, Warri. Other projects inspected were the completed Ogiyede Road in Warri; construction of concrete-paved NPA-Refinery Link Road, Ekpan, and the congest traffic from ever-busy Refinery-Shaguolo-Ubeji Road. He said: “We are managing our resources and that is why we are giving special attention to drainage projects in Warri and Uvwie area because they have a huge flooding problem. There are more road projects that are ongoing and if we find time before the Christmas, we will go out for more inspection, otherwise from January, next year, we will go out to inspect more projects in order to ensure that our roads are properly done.” The Head of Service in the state, Mr. Reginand Bayoko, who charged workers on the core values of public service, said over N577 million had been spent on public officers’ housing loans for 263 beneficiaries since 2015. Bayoko, who briefed journalists on the 2019 Public Service Week Celebration in Asaba, the state capital, yesterday said since public perception about the public service was not encouraging as they were been viewed as inefficient and corrupt, the onus was on public servants to adhere to the integrity of their jobs. He said: “The governor has given a matching order that the new minimum wage should be implemented with effect from December salary. This is to boost workers’ morale in the state.” While he said over N21 billion had already been paid to pensioners since 2015 till date, he also hinted that the extra-ministerial committee handling the issue of sacked workers over irregularities had submitted their findings and the state’s Civil Service Commission would soon issue appointment letters to successful ones among them.