The estimated number of people that have HIV in Nigeria reduced from 3.5 million in 2005 to 1.9 million in 2018. In spite of the low  prevalence, experts and international agencies said special focus  on paediatric HIV would reduce new infections and prevent deaths among those living with the virus. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports   As far back as March, 2019, the outcome of the Nigeria National HIV/AIDS indicator and Impact Survey (NAIIS) had given Nigeria a pass mark in the fight to reduce the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in the country. The findings of that survey showed that Nigeria was making good strides in the efforts to achieve zero-HIV in its environment. Speaking recently on the development, the Director General of the National Agency for the Control of AIDs (NACA), Dr. Aliyu Gambo said, “We will say the situation is good at the moment.  We never knew that in the last 15 years we have done so well in terms of fighting HIV in Nigeria until 2018 when we did the NAIIS survey. According to the survey, the prevalence of HIV reduced from 4.4 per cent to 1.4 per cent. It was 4.4 per cent in 2005 and 2018 it was 1.4 per cent. Consequently, the estimated number of people we think have HIV in Nigeria reduced from 3.5 million in 2005 to 1.9 million in 2018.  So 1.4 prevalence in 2018 and 1.9 million as the estimated number of people living with HIV in the country is good, said the director general of NACA. Against this backdrop, however, one of the challenges still facing HIV/AIDS fight in the country is the impact of this epidemic on children. A recent report released by UNICEF in advance to mark the 2019 World AIDS Day revealed that in Nigeria, more than 47 children and adolescents died every day from AIDS-related causes in 2018. That findings was based on the outcome of a global snapshot on children. Low access to antiretroviral treatment and limited prevention efforts were the leading causes for these deaths, with only 54 per cent of children aged 0-14 living with HIV globally in 2018 – or 790,000 children – receiving lifesaving antiretroviral therapy (ART). Country Representative of UNICEF in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins said, “Progress has been made in the battle against HIV and AIDS – but we must do more, especially when it comes to Nigerian children and adolescents.” “Testing and treating for children and adolescents is a matter of life and death – and we must choose life.” According to latest global data, regional disparities in access to treatment among children living with HIV is very high – with West and Central Africa including Nigeria faring worst. Access is highest in South Asia, at 91 per cent, followed by the Middle East and North Africa (73 per cent), Eastern and Southern Africa (61 per cent), East Asia and the Pacific (61 per cent), Latin America and the Caribbean (46 per cent) and West and Central Africa (28 per cent). However, access to treatment by children living with HIV in Nigeria is only 35 per cent. Mothers’ access to antiretroviral therapy to prevent the transmission of the virus to their babies has increased globally, however, reaching 82 per cent, up from 44 per cent less than 10 years ago. This figure in Nigeria is 44 per cent, up from 22 per cent in 2009. “It is good news that more and more pregnant women are receiving antiretroviral treatment to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV, which has helped avert about two million new HIV infections and prevented the deaths of over one million children under five years old around the world,” said Peter Hawkins. Speaking further on efforts to avert new HIV infections in children, Hawkins said, “But we need to see the same kind of progress in ensuring that children who already have the virus are receiving lifesaving treatment. HIV programmes need to be fully funded and equipped to preserve, protect and improve the quality of life for Nigerian children. We cannot and must not abandon these children.” A Professor of Heamatology and Blood Transfusion and Head, Antiretroviral Services at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Suleiman Akanmu said most of the services on the Prevention of HIV from Mother-to-Child were domiciled in teaching/tertiary hospitals in Nigeria, hence, they are not accessible to numerous women in rural far-to-reach locations. He therefore called for the expansion of services to grassroots areas with a view to capture more pregnant women in those outposts so as to prevent the transmission of HIV to their newborn. Additional data from the report include: To end HIV/AIDS as a public health threat for future generations, UNICEF therefore called on governments and partners to improve HIV testing and treatment data for children and adolescents to better respond to the needs of this vulnerable population. Similarly, the world body urged governments to invest in and implement effective and innovative interventions to urgently close the persistent testing and treatment gap for children and adolescents living with HIV. Paediatric HIV is not the only area that pose challenge in the fight to cut HIV prevalence in the country. Even among adults, patients who step forward to carry out voluntary HIV tests are in the minority in Nigeria. Although, as awareness on HIV increases, more Nigerians test to know their status, several proportion of the population, especially in the grassroots, are still not captured. Common reasons that deter people from getting tested for HIV are: Fear and anxiety of testing positive for HIV Fear and anxiety are probably the biggest reasons why people avoid getting tested. However, experts said it was far better to get the testing over and done with. If it is negative, it will bring much relief. If the result is unfortunately positive, it is timely to get support and treatment in order to stay healthy. If I test positive for HIV, people will find out Medical clinics and testing centres endeavour to keep all patient records strictly confidential. However, the ministry of health would be notified. This is mainly for public health purposes, such as disease surveillance, monitoring the HIV infection situation, conducting contact tracing, and assessing disease prevention and management measures. Healthcare professionals and the ministry do not inform the patient’s employer, insurance provider, or family and loved ones. Fear of being judged or being embarrassed Healthcare professionals are trained to provide professional and non-judgmental consultation. If you do not wish to visit your regular doctor, search online as there are plenty of alternative options that you can consider. It is important to find a sexual health clinic or testing centre that you feel comfortable with. I trust my partner If two HIV-negative people are in a monogamous relationship, then there is no risk of contracting HIV. If one member strays from the relationship, then both parties could be at risk of HIV, especially if engaging in unprotected sex. It is important to have open and honest communication with your partner. If you or your partner has had sex with any casual partner, or if there is any doubt about your HIV status, get tested. I am not at risk of HIV Even if you think that there is no chance that you have been exposed to HIV, as long as you are sexually active, do get HIV testing at least once a year, or more frequently if your behaviour puts you at higher risk. Who should test On who should test for HIV, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommended that everyone between the ages of 13 to 64 should undergo HIV testing at least once as part of routine healthcare.