The largely untold story behind Islamic insurance, otherwise known as Takaful, is the wealth creation angle that makes it stand out for the poor and its reachout to people of different faith. Sunday Ojeme reports  A bout two years ago, a major opportunity presented itself for more Nigerians, especially Christians and those of other faith, to understand the concept of Islamic insurance, otherwise known as Takaful.  In a brief message announcing its Takaful programme in Nigeria, the Chief Executive Officer, AlHuda Centre of Islamic Banking and Economics (CIBE), Muhammad Zubair Mughal, motivated industry players to play their roles in the development of Takaful  in African region especially in Nigeria as the insurance model can, to a large extent, tackle poverty in the region and benefit both Muslims and non-Muslims. .  Faith breaker  While most people have continued to see it as a financial tool exclusively meant for the Muslims, Takaful, over the years, has evolved to be an all-embracing insurance model aimed principally to benefit whoever is involved, whether a Christian, Muslim or traditional worshipper.  The difference between Takaful and conventional insurance is so clear and goes beyond the religious perspective from which most people see it.  As part of the success story, the National Insurance Commission [NAICOM] has licensed some Takaful players including Jaiz Takaful Insurance Plc, and  Noor Takaful Plc apart from other insurance firms that have also provided WI dow for the insurance model to thrive.  Apart from enhancing Federal Government’s financial inclusion arrangement, the working of the Islamic model of insurance also makes it attractive as it appears to be more rewarding without discrimination. Mechanism  In the case of the conventional insurance, it is a risk transfer mechanism, whereby risk is transferred from the policyholder (the insured) to the insurance company (the insurer) in consideration of the premium paid by the insured. In this regard, if the insured suffers any loss, the insurance company is expected to compensate the policyholders in the form of claims payment of the sum stipulated in the policy document.  However, assuming there is no loss suffered whatever surplus or profit made by the insurer would all go to the firms’ shareholders as the insured is covered during the policy period but not entitled to any return at the end of such period. On the other hand, Islamic insurance is based on mutuality; hence the risk is not transferred but shared by the participants who form a common pool. The insurance company only acts as the manager of the pool.  Unlike the conventional insurance, the surplus belongs to the participants and is accordingly returned to them (in proportion to their respective shares of contributions) at the end of the accounting period.  While the conventional insurance has some elements of gambling attached to it, Takaful is operated on the basis of brotherhood where no one is left out at the end whether there is a loss or not.  Progress According to records, Takaful is one of the fastest growing segments of insurance at around 20 per cent per annum on average with its contributions conservatively estimated at around $3 billion, comprising 60 per cent General Takaful, and 40 per cent Family Takaful. With three companies now wholly licensed by NAICOM and others promoting through smaller windows in Nigeria, there is no doubt that Nigerians of all religious belief now have the opportunity to embrace the insurance model.   Regulator’s push The immediate past Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, had promised at the launch of Jaiz Takaful in Kano that more of the operators would soon be unleashed in order to extend the benefit to all Nigerians beyond Islamic faithful. He said the commission introduced Takaful and microinsurance products in the country as an attempt to reach the segment of the market that is either hitherto reached or not comfortable with the conventional insurance products. .  Kari said the commission introduced Takaful and microinsurance products as an attempt to reach the segment of the market that is either, hitherto, unreached or not comfortable with the conventional insurance products. Advising Nigerians to embrace Takaful for their protection against risks and wealth creation, he said the insurance model was both ethical financing and cooperative risk protection methods that are superior alternatives as they reinvigorate human capital, human solidarity, emphasise dignity, community self-help and economic self-development, generating manifold benefits, which appeal not only to Muslims but all.  Expert opinion  Speaking in support of the model, a university lecturer, Mr. Yekeen Abdul-Maliq, said Takaful has nothing to do with Islam, except that it is based on Islamic injunction. According to him, “Islamic injunction is essentially the Law of Moses, and then when you talk about Sharia you are talking about the Law of Moses. When we hear Islamic banking or Islamic insurance we believe it must be Islamic, even Muslims believe so, Christians too believe so. But that is as a result of misinformation and most of us are not willing to read.  “Both northerners and southerners will accept Islamic insurance. There are a lot of Muslims in the south as a result of that they will even buy into the insurance business. “Insurance in Islam is to make provisions for essentials either while you are alive or while you are no longer there. Insurance itself has an Islamic origin, when one suffers a loss, then people come together and uplift him out of the predicament. This was also highlighted by the Chief Executive Officer, Metropolitan Skills, a capacity building institution, Hajiya Ummuhani Amin, who said that the prevalence of unbanked population in the northern part of the country is because there were no institutions to meet their investment belief.  She said: “In the north, everybody is looking forward to a financial institution where you can invest funds otherwise they will not take it to any bank or insurance company because the conventional financial institutions have elements of uncertainty, which is against Islamic principles.  No doubt, despite the predictable challenges surrounding Takaful operation for a secular country like Nigeria, since the benefits appear to have an overriding potential, the Federal Government, through the industry regulator, should provide an enhanced opportunity for Nigerians to key into the system as a way of tackling poverty extensively.  Last line Essentially, the introduction of the Islamic model of insurance in the country has so far recorded success among the Islamic faithful. It is, however, important to note at this particular time that Nigerians of other faith should realise the goldmine before them and as well key into it.