  The Commissioner of Police in Abia, Mr. Ene Okon, yesterday said that the command arrested five persons in the last 10 months, including a dismissed Maj.-Gen. for allegedly dealing in firearms. Okon said that the army general (name withheld) was arrested last week with some firearms in Aba, the commercial hub of the state. He spoke at a news briefing in his office to highlight the achievements of the command since he assumed office in February. He said that the command arrested 127 armed robbery suspects, 114 kidnap suspects and 150 alleged cult members during the period. He said that they also arrested 20 persons for alleged motorcycle snatching, adding that the command recovered 22 stolen motorcycles. Okon also said that the command rescued 79 kidnap victims and recovered 88 vehicles, 120 firearms and 528 ammunition. He said that 658 suspects were currently facing prosecution for different criminal charges. The police boss also paraded 25 persons arrested in the last one-and-a-half weeks in connection with armed robbery, car and tricycles snatching in Ubakala Umuahia. He said that the suspects included a 12-member syndicate that allegedly specialised in the theft and dismantling of cars, which they sold to ready buyers in parts. According to him, “This syndicate steals people’s vehicles at gunpoint and within 10 minutes to 20 minutes, they would dismantle them that it would be difficult for the owner to recognise. “They will in turn sell the dismantled parts of the vehicles to buyers, who are already waiting at their hideout in Ubakala.” He said that 12 members of the syndicate were arrested, while the hideout had been razed down. Okon further said that operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) busted a notorious cartel that dealt in hard drugs at Ntigha in Isialangwa North council area of the state. He said that the operatives made some arrests and recovered large quanties of cocaine and cannabis sativa, while two leaders of the cartel, who are natives of the area, reportedly escaped. He said that the suspects would be properly arraigned at the end of the ongoing investigations. He regretted that the command lost at least eight of its operatives in the line of duty in 2019. Also, the police chief said that Umuahia now experienced an unprecedented peace and security with the arrest of the remnant of a notorious armed robbery gang, whose leader, popularly called Grave, was killed about two weeks ago during a crossfire with men of SARS. He assured the residents of adequate measures to consolidate on the successes so far recorded to ensure that they had a crime-free Christmas and New Year clebrations. “The bonus I have for Abia residents is that they will have a peaceful celebration and sleep with their two eyes closed during the festivities,” Okon said. He further said that the ban on the use of fireworks during the festivities was still in force. He also said that police divisions had been directed to rid the streets of used tyres to prevent bonfires on major roads during the Yuletide. Meanwhile, a suspected armed robber, Kenneth Emmanuel, yesterday broke down and wept when police placed three guns before him as exhibits recovered from him. But the suspect said none of the guns belonged to him. He denied being a robber, but described himself as, “a victim of circumstance”. Emmanuel was among several suspects paraded by the Abia State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ene Okon. The commissioner alleged that a locally-made double-barrelled gun, one locally-made single-barrelled gun and one locally-made pistol were recovered from the suspect. Tears filled Emmanuel’s eyes and rolled down his cheeks after operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) placed the three guns before him. Emmanuel explained that he was arrested in a tricycle, at Aba. He said: “When the police flagged down the tricycle for a search, three other occupants, who unknown to me were criminals, jumped out and ran. I just sat there and was arrested. The guns found in the tricycle do not belong to me. The truth is that I don’t know anything about these guns and I don’t know those men that ran away. I was just a passenger in that tricycle.” Okon, however, said that Emmanuel was arrested by operatives of SARS, attached to “Operation Puff Adder” along Ama Double Okpuloumuobo on December 15, in a tricycle. He said: “The patrol team intercepted a tricycle marked UMA 017 WW, conveying four occupants including the rider. While conducting a search on the tricycle, three of the occupants took to their heels, while Emmanuel was arrested and the exhibits recovered in the tricycle.” Okon said that the suspect had confessed to the crime.