Leader of Arewa Youths Congress, Alhaji Shetimma Yerima in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE speaks on the call from some quarters for President Muhammadu Buhari to contest a third term in office and other national issues   What is your view about the agitation for third term for President Muhammadu Buhari despite his declaration that neither age not the constitution was on his side?   Well, two things are involved. One is that the President did not sound convincing in his statement that he is not interested in third term in office. This is because we can cite some few examples of some of his previous utterances, denials and the fact that afterwards those things came to pass.   First he promised that he would stop fuel subsidy, but at the end of the day his case is even worse than that of his predecessor. We can also cite the fact that he said there would be no office for the First Lady, but today he not only reversed himself, he has appointed six aides for  that office.  We can cite so many examples. However, we cannot relent, because like today I was reading in one of the online platforms where he said he was under pressure to contest for the third term, but that he would not succumb to it. All these are clear indications that there are more battles ahead of us.   However, Nigerians are prepared. I understand that some of these people in government, especially in this government of the All Progressives Congress (APC), do not have single respect for Nigerians and the laws at all. They think they can do anything, any time and anyhow, with impunity and abuse the sensibility of Nigerians.  But they should not test the endurance of Nigerians because when you push a people to the wall and over-stretch them, (and I think that is what they are trying to do,), and if they go ahead, the people are also waiting for them to start it, and when they do so, they will know that Nigerians have a voice. We will stand on the side of the people and ensure that when that scheme comes our way it will be dead on arrival.   Another fear that has been expressed is that given the Senate President’s stance on similar issues in the past and the recent meeting of President Buhari with Speakers of State Houses of Assembly, the ploy might be real?   The Senate President is not doing anything different from what we anticipated. Right from the onset, I was one of the critics of his emergence as Senate President because I foresaw that we would have a rubber stamp National Assembly under him. I am not expecting anything from him because I won’t be surprised by anything that comes from him, his action or body language.  Recall that he once looked at the nation in the face and said whatever President Buhari brings to the National Assembly is good to go. You can imagine somebody thinking in that direction. To me such a person has nothing to offer; nothing to give out.  Naturally you should expect him to be a rubber stamp Senate President.   Let it be known to you that all those people sitting at the National Assembly should know that their constituencies are looking at them and whatever action they will take. If they think Abuja is their constituency let them continue to sit at the chamber and take a decision without consulting with their constituencies. We are in touch with their various constituencies more than them who are representing them, and we know they are watching and they would ask them.   What is your impression about the Hate Speech and the Social Media Regulation Bill?   Those ones are dead on arrival and I don’t want to waste my energy on them. One senator from Niger State, Abdulahi Sabi or so has put his neck on it and the National Assembly has left him to carry his cross alone. He should continue, because I know he is just confused and he should continue in his confusion. Imagine the other day he said he was ready to replace the death by hanging provision with prison terms. That underscores his confusion.   Then again the Bill of Regulation of the Social Media, that too is dead on arrival because you cannot gag the people. we stand on the right of the people and the media on this because such a bill is a violation of their constitutional rights and no one can take it away. Because these people speak out when things are going wrong and that is a democratic practice but the moment those bill scale through we are in terrible situation and democracy will be gone.  That is why the current opposition to it should be sustained and Nigerians should brace up for more resistance of such bills through legal means. There are sufficient laws in the country on defamation of character and even sedition. So this bill is a replication of existing ones and therefore unnecessary.   On flip side, don’t you think it is true that this present government came to power through hate speech? Look at what happened in the build up to the 2015 elections.  You will recall how hate speeches went across the board.  At that period some of us were even scared whether Nigeria would survive or not.  But as God had it, there was no trouble in the land after the elections, because the government in power then conceded defeat. One wondered what would have happened if it had not conceded defeat.   Remember what happened in 2013 and 2014 campaigns when it was clear that some people were all out and declared war against the people. However, I’m not an advocate of hate speech and would not incite anyone against the other. But we must be firm and understand where our limitations are. A situation where a few people are set out against the generality of the people to stifle their freedom of expression for personal benefits in violation of the people’s constitutional rights as if we are in Banana Republic is unacceptable.  That is not possible, because we are in a democratic republic.   Talking about democracy, how will you describe what happened during the Kogi and Bayelsa states elections?   That was a daylight robbery. Was there an election? There was nothing but impunity. These are some of the crimes politicians keep committing and some people will keep quiet, but at the end of the day we will pay dearly for it. How do we explain that our votes don’t count any longer? What has happened to democratic principles of simple majority or the will of the people? How do we continue to tolerate these acts of impunity? This is not right and there is nothing to celebrate about it.   Are you talking about Bayelsa or Kogi in this particular case?   The Kogi issue was the worse. The Bayelsa issue to some extent, something happened along the line on the part of the governor who was careless and failed to see the hand-writing on the wall, and took a lot of things for granted. But in the Kogi State issue, there was no election at all. Where helicopter where around intimidating people; where thugs stormed and scattered polling units and people were killed? How did you see the incineration of a woman in her house in what has been described as the worse barbaric action of this life- and you still call that an election? You can recall that the entire civil society groups which monitored the election, for the first time in the history of this nation called for its cancellation.   It is wrong that even Senator Dino Melaye will survive it, because Dino is the victim. If I were him I would forget about the election and go back to sleep. This was a Dino who survived a recall and all of a sudden his constituency became a battle ground. I do not see him surviving this onslaught.   In the face of all this, what is your view of the call for electoral reforms?   Without electoral reform, we cannot achieve anything.  We cannot get it right as far as elections in Nigeria are concerned and that is why I am one of those who insist today that electoral reform is the only hope for the survival of this democracy, because the electoral system has been badly damaged. That is why the government should do at least one thing for which he can be remembered- pass the amendment to the Electoral Act. Without that, I’m afraid that 2023 elections will be a different thing altogether.   A different thing in what sense?   Like disaster. The indices are there. What happened in Kogi State was a rehearsal for this. What happened in Kogi is likely to replicate itself in a bigger form and that will be dangerous for our nation. So the passage of the amendment to the Electoral Act should be done and the President ascent to this. That is the only thing that can safe our electoral system and restore public confidence and credibility to it. This very important if this subversion of the will of the people must stop; the bill must be passed to law and signed.   That is the only thing that can help the nation; otherwise you will see that a lot of people will not participate in the election anymore. And if they dot participate, government will be left to appoint people into office; appoint presidents, governors, lawmakers, local government chairmen and all the rest, and forget about elections.   How do you see the current alleged money laundering allegation against the Chairman of Air Peace?   All of us had seen the issue of Onyema coming from the moment he started air-lifting stranded Nigerians from South Africa free of charge in the wake of the xenophobic attacks, a job that should have been done by the Federal Government. If you look at the construction of the charges, it seems that somebody in government was involved in the whole act.   This man has been in business for about six years and what is even more disturbing was government’s failure to protect its citizen on the premise of presumption of innocence until contrary is proved by court of competent jurisdiction. In this particular case, one government official came out without looking at the fact to condemn the man. Haba, even the US government will not do that without recourse to the law court.  