SLOW The growth of VoIP service in Nigeria is still slow as many users have abandoned their service  V oice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service providers in the country are currently battling low revenue as 757, 281 subscribers for the service become inactive.  According to data released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), as of October this year, connected lines for VoIP service on the two networks stood at 917,731.   However, out of that, only 160,450 lines were active.  This has limited revenue sources for the two VoIP service providers, Smile Communications and Ntel, to only 17 per cent active users, while 83 per cent of their subscribers remain inactive.   Smile Communications accounted for 97 per cent of the active users with 156,000 subscriptions at the end of October, leaving Ntel with just 4,450 active subscribers, which is three per cent.  Sometimes referred to as IP Telephony or Internet Telephony, VoIP allows its users to do seamless communication without the need for telephones.  The adoption of Voice over IP is observed across various industries worldwide especially in the developing regions in order to cater to their growing demand for everyday business activities.  With its real-time communication services, it has helped organisations across various industries to lower the communication costs.  The global VoIP market was valued at $77.4 billion in 2018 and is expected to reach $93.2 billion by the end of 2024, growing at a CAGR of 3.1 per cent between 2019 and 2024.  Though still one of the least subscribed services in the country, VoIP had gained traction in the last few years as subscriptions jumped from paltry 151,589 in April 2017, to 917,731 in October this year.  However, despite the growth, VoIP telephony still has the lowest technology share of Nigeria’s telecommunications market, accounting for only 0.09 per cent share of the market.  Communication over the GSM networks remains the largest in the country, accounting for 99.85 per cent of the market share.  Industry analysts believe that the VoIP market in Nigeria would come into full scale when the country is able to deepen broadband penetration, noting that the service would not get wider acceptance until the internet is everywhere and at a cheaper cost.  As part of efforts to increase broadband penetration, which stood at 37.8 per cent as of October, the Federal Government had last week inaugurated a 25-man committee to draft a new National Broadband Plan (NBP 2020 -2025) sequel to the first NBP 2013 – 2018.  The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, who inaugurated the committee, said the team was to develop a new National Broadband Plan that will be the guiding template for the development of this very important area of telecommunications.   “The committee is to take a critical look at where we are after a painstaking review of the 2013-2018 phase and the status of penetration now. The members are enjoined to also examine the challenges with a view to proffering solutions thereto. They should also look at the position of growing and emerging technologies among others,” Pantami said.  Also speaking, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, said broadband infrastructure remained one of the top priorities of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to ensure people around the world have access to equitable and affordable broadband, wherever they are and whatever the circumstances they are in.   With adequate broadband infrastructure in place, Danbatta assured that everything else would fall into place.  He pledged the commitment of the board and management of NCC, especially in the area of driving the infrastructure that would ensure that critical mass of ICT adoption in use will in time increase the level of broadband penetration in the country.