Residents of Alaguntan at the Iyana-Ipaja area of Lagos State have narrated how they found ways of securing their community from criminals. The chairperson of the Alaguntan Residents and Landlords Association, Mrs. Adetutu Abiodun Adeleke, said that she had to sacrifice her time and comfort to come out between 1.30a.m. and 3a.m. to patrol the community alongside local security guards, just to ensure that the community was safe and residents could sleep with their two eyes closed. She said: “Sometimes, whenever local guards catch a suspected criminal, they would put a call across to me, to come and checkout the situation.” Adeleke explained that most of the local guards employed by the association were members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC). She said that the OPC had been guarding the community for years and that the residents had no cause to complain. This satisfaction, she said, was because she and members of the association were very meticulous in selecting security guards. She said: “I consulted retired military men that worked with my husband before. We put heads together to confirm the guards.” A member of the community, who identified himself simply as Mr. Yemi, said: “The main objective of the CDA is security, which we have been working on. Although the OPC guards are not allowed to carry arms, they make use of machetes to secure the area. They do a very good job.” According to him, patrolling and securing of streets started 12 years ago. He also spoke about the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC), stressing that the corps had been very helpful in securing communities during daytime. Another resident, Mr. Paschal Nwokorie, revealed some of his encounters with the local guards. He recalled that on November 1, while returning from a church programme, he got to the community about 3a.m. Nwokorie said he was stopped by the guards at the gate for questioning and was only allowed to go when they recognised him. The man said he was impressed by their conduct and diligence towards their work. He said: “I was happy to discover that even in my absence, they guarded my building as if I was at home.” Pascal also spoke about the strange sounds made by the guards. He said: “When I came to this area newly, the clinging noise the guards made, by striking iron against iron, was quiet disturbing, but this is my third year in the community and I no longer complain about it. It’s for my safety.” Mrs. Nkiru Onyeneke, buttressing Pascal’s point, said: “I can remember when my brother-in-law returned from Accra, Ghana, very late with his wife and daughter. It was about 1a.m. The guards at the gate stopped them for questioning and decided to follow them to my house; just to be sure they weren’t lying. “Again, there was a day, about 2a.m, we heard a noise in the area. It seemed like the security guards caught someone. Even my husband had to come out with some men in our compound. When my husband came back, he told me that the guards came out with sticks, knives and whatever they had to protect themselves but there were no guns.” The woman noted that residents do not leave security of the community solely in the hands of the guards. A petty trader, who sells kerosene and condiments at the entrance to one of the streets, said: “Even though it is God that protects us, we have to be security conscious and be our brother’s keeper.” Another cheerful resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said he was happy with the operations of the local guards in the community. He said “Before I moved into any community in Lagos Sate, I must be sure of its security. I have experienced robbery and I didn’t like it at all; nobody does. This community has tried with respect to security. At least, I see people go to mosque early in the morning without fear and others return from vigil without fear of being attack. Although we are being taxed for the security, let us just see it as the little sacrifice we contribute towards our safety and peace in the environment.” Despite the glowing reports, Adeleke disclosed that there had been instances of theft. This usually occurs after the guards have gone home, to return at night, she said. The streets in the community are secured with five gates and these gates protect the seven streets under the watch of Adeleke. Adeleke also appreciated the efforts of the police in the community. According to her, the police have been supporting the community by tackling security cases reported to them. She advised citizens to be security conscious and to know that security is not a one-person’s business, but a collective one.