This week has been very eventful in the sporting world. So many notable events came up during the week and each good enough as the subject of discourse. It is sad that the crisis in the Athletic Federation of Nigeria is getting worse by the day. The two factions of the federation are not ready to make peace and this certainly will continue in the New Year.  The Nigeria Football Federation staged its Annual General Meeting in Benin with many talking points. The suspension of beach football at continental and global stage is a good development because it is only from the beach league that a solid team can be raised. At the meeting, the tenure of general secretary Muhammed Sanusi was extended for five years and one wonders why? His tenure is even longer than the board itself. It is ridiculous.  The opening speech of the minister of sports, Sunday Dare, which was read by the Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, at the AGM was the biggest highlight of the event. The minister said that the country’s football was now noted more for crisis than the talents and skills prevalent in the average Nigerian footballer. The minister also frowned upon the poor results recorded which should have formed the key part of the country’s development in the game.  The U-17 and U-20 football teams – Golden Eaglets and the Flying Eagles — fumbled at the FIFA World Cup respectively while the country’s male and female football teams failed to make it to the football event of the forthcoming Olympic Games.  The Speech reads in part: “We have gone from a football loving nation to a nation that needlessly squabbles over football. We now showcase more of our disagreements and discordant tunes in football than the talents and skills that should be displayed in this game. ’The bad image at all levels of our football, including the organizers of the domestic league cannot attract sponsorship, which is the biggest hub of business. In the eyes of the Nigerian public, the perception that NFF and Nigerian football is corrupt is rife.” The minister was dead serious with his remarks and maybe that also informed his absence.  It was a shock that the NFF did not address any of the issues raised by the minister, rather, the body went ahead to ‘implement’ its pre-AGM plans. I commend the decision of the NFF on beach football but for the growth of the game, the league must be better while the transition of players and development of the age-grade players must be taken seriously. The poor results by clubs on the continent is a reflection of the poor state of the league while the recent dismal outing of the CHAN team raised a lot of questions on the league.  It was also a big surprise that the imbroglio between Super Eagles manager Gernot Rohr and the federation was not discussed. The national coaches have been poor and ways to develop them are other issues crucial to football.  The minister who touched on most of the key components of the football problems was busy with another project in Lagos, the adopt-an-athlete scheme. It was inaugurated in Lagos. Already, wrestler Odunayo Adekuoroye, Tobi Amusan and Ese Brume and 11 others have been confirmed adopted by individuals and corporate bodies.  I am not sure of other names on the list but I sincerely hope the likes of Divine Oduduru in sprints, Blessing Oborodudu in wrestling, Aruna Quadri in table tennis, just to mention but a few are on that list. They will be given 20,000 dollars each for preparation and this is commendable and a good way to start preparations for the games. Within a short time, Dare has made giant strides in the sports sector.  He is vibrant on social media and this has yielded fruits already. An eight-year-old boxer who was posted on Twitter got the attention of the Minister and under one week, Dare visited the girl and adopted her for future development.  The minister has also tried to balance his attention with other sports. I, however, expect him to find a way to solve the problem of the AFN, gymnastics, basketball and of course, football. Getting these issues solved is crucial to sports development. Now that the minister has tactically started the preparation for the games, it is important to go a step further by monitoring key athletes who are medal prospects, with a view to motivating them as the games draw near.