Traffic officials in Nigerians have urged motorists to stop attacking their officials, who are carrying out their lawful duties. This was stated during a recent meeting of officials of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and Man O War. The team also alerted Nigerians to dangers on the highways and what they could do to avoid accidents. Motorists were also charged to do everything possible to avoid factors that could endanger their lives and those of other road users. The enlightenment programme was held on Saturday at Farm Service Centre, Oko Oba,  Ifaka Ijaiye, Lagos State. Ambassador Charles Ogbonnaya, a LASTMA officer, explained that the reason majority of road users often got flagged down was because they do not obey traffic laws. He added that road users also tend to become aggressive with traffic officials, leading to attacks. He further said: “Accidents on the road are caused by many factors which include excessive speeding. A good driver should use the appropriate speed limit on the highway. Majority of road users also experience road rage, anger and depression. All these affect their driving. It is important to control yourself while driving. Other factors that cause road accidents are impatience and over speeding.” Ogbonnaya urged Nigerians to desist from assaulting traffic officials and have an attitude change towards traffic laws and signs. The Deputy Route Commander, FRSC, Shoyesi Olabisi, said: “Road Safety is a state of mind while road traffic crash is absence of the mind. We urge road users to be alert when they are behind the wheel. They should maintain their vehicles in this festive period and ensure they have valid documents.” She advised road users to desist from the use of cell phones while driving, drinking and eating behind the wheel. “Don’t overtake at bends! Do not leave your safety in the hands of any other person,” warned Olabisi. According to her, a press statement had already been released, stating the number of motorists arrested and charged for flouting traffic laws. She disclosed that 507 people were arrested, while 452 were prosecuted. She further stated: “We are collaborating with the Lagos State Mobile Court to make sure that drivers, who commit traffic offences are arraigned. Road users have been caught for various offences, especially for not using seat belts and driving without valid documents.”