Executive Director of Festus Fajemilo Foundation (FFF) Mr Afolabi Fajemilo has urged the three tiers of government, the private sector and relevant stakeholders to ensure the inclusion of Persons with Disability (PWD), saying this move portends bright future for this group of citizens.  Also, Fajemilo said all hands must be on deck to ensure that PWD attain independent living as a strategy to achieve their potential so as to contribute meaningfully to the development of society and the nation at large.  He spoke during the celebration of International Day of Persons With Disabilities, which was organised by FFF with support from Liliane Fonds, Daughters of Charity Nigeria and Stanbic IBTC Bank.  The 2019 International Day of Person with Disability was marked in Oko-Oba, Abule Egba in the outskirts of Lagos recently, to showcase the talents of PWD. The theme of the celebration was ‘Promoting the Participant of Persons With Disabilities and their Leadership’.  In his speech, Fajemilo, who is also the founder of FFF, said that the International Day of Person with Disabilities was a global event aimed at celebrating people with dis abilities to show them love as well as educate them on how to attain independent living.   Fajemilo said: “I appreciate Liliane Fonds for their care, for the free therapy they offer for the children living with disability and social activities planned for them. “Also, I appreciate the Daughters of Charity for their support. I appreciate Stanbic IBTC Bank for their support in responding to the needs of the affected children.” The height of the celebration was some presentations and performance done by children living with disabilities including barley dance, drama, poetry, presentation of drawings, creative arts and dancing.   A representative of Liliane Fonds, Toyin Amoko said that children were gifts from God. “We show them love not because of their disabilities but because they have the ability.” Chairman of the event, Pastor Oluwatoyin Olufade and his wife, Mrs Adenike said they were proud to support the FFF. Mummy Daniel, mother of a child with disability, said that her son was upset about his physical challenges and struggled to associate with anyone, “but things changed when FFF was introduced to us. My child is indeed a happy boy now and he doesn’t feel bad about himself. I must say he is indeed a special child.”