T he Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s birthday promise to bequeath Nigeria a legacy of free and fair elections is diversionary until he signs the amendment to the Electoral Act. President Buhari, yesterday, promised that the 2023 general election would be free and fair.  But PDP, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Nigerians could not be swayed away by such promises.   The party noted that President Buhari could not be said to be committed to free and fair election after he refused to sign the amendment to the Electoral Act.  It also accused the president of endorsing the outcome of “bloody and manipulated governorship elections that occurred in Bayelsa, Kogi, Kano, Ekiti, Osun as well as the 2019 general election in which he and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), were huge beneficiaries.  “Furthermore, Mr. President cannot rightly assert a commitment to electoral reform when he congratulated all beneficiaries of past flawed elections, while his administration failed to take any decisive step to bring known riggers and perpetrators of violence in these elections to book.”  PDP told the president that true electoral reform which Nigeria requires goes beyond mere verbal posturing.  It challenged him to openly support the strengthening of the nation’s electoral laws and the decisive application of the provisions thereof.   The party called on President Buhari to demonstrate his commitment for free, fair and credible electoral process by immediately returning the Electoral Act amendment bill to the National Assembly for accelerated consideration with a commitment from him to sign it into law upon passage.  “The demonstration of this birthday declaration should also include a presidential order for the immediate prosecution of the killers of Mrs. Salome Abu and all those killed in the last Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections.   “Mr. President should as well order the release of information to Nigerians on who was responsible for the deployment of a police helicopter to attack voters who queued up to perform their civic responsibilities and aided the manipulation of the Kogi governorship election to favour his party.   “Moreover, as part of a commitment to this birthday declaration, Mr. President must assure Nigerians that he will not interfere in the process of legislative consideration of all amendments required in the Electoral Act, which is the only way to guarantee free, fair and credible elections in our country,” the party added.