T he Federal Government has reiterated that decision to reopen its borders against neighbouring countries depend on strict compliance to Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS) trade protocol agreements by affected countries.   Nigerian officials were said to have held strategic meeting on 25th November, 2019 to review compliance with ECOWAS protocol trade agreements and found that the situation remains the same.   Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mariam Katagum, confirmed government’s position on border closure to journalists yesterday in Abuja at a media briefing.   She said the decision to reopen the borders would be based on recommendations from the patrol team on whether Niger and Benin Republic have complied with trade protocols. She said no feasible date had been arrived at.   The minister said the decision to reopen the borders would be based on recommendations from the patrol team on whether Niger and Benin Republic have complied with trade protocols.   “We had the strategic meeting with the three countries and what we agreed with our neighbours is to activate a joint border patrol comprising the customs, all the security agencies and ensure they follow the actual protocol laid down by ECOWAS.   “The committee met on November 25 and it is only when that committee is certain that all the countries are respecting the ECOWAS protocol that they will recommend a day for the opening of the borders,” she said.  The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, said the ministry is currently carrying out a review of the country’s trade policy as well as the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan to reflect current economic realities.   Adebayo also said that the automotive policy is being reviewed, adding that a meeting would be held with stakeholders in the auto sector on January 28 to get their input to the policy.   He said after the stakeholders’ meeting, the executive would present a bill to the National Assembly for the policy to become law.   The minister expressed government’s sustained interest in development of economic zones across the country.  “We are still desirous of creating these zones. However, we are trying to be diligent to avoid pitfalls. A lot is going on about Economic Zones,” he said.