Decision of the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) to hold a mandatory training for some of its personnel on the premises of a church has caused uproar in the state. It was also alleged that some Muslims among the trainees were not allowed to pray on the premises of the church. Based on this, an Islamic group, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has criticised LASTMA for allegedly denying Muslims the right to worship during camping. It alleged that LASTMA authorities breached the fundamental human rights of Muslims by disallowing them from observing congregational prayers in the camp during the Induction Course 10 held at the Four Square International Conference Centre, Idimu, Lagos. But the LASTMA General Manager (GM), Mr. Olajide Oduyoye, said that the agency’s actions were taken in the spirit of unity and camp rule. Oduyoye said LASTMA was only trying to create an unbroken bound among the trained officers through strict adherence to camp rule. However, the Director of MURIC, Prof Ishaq Akintola, expressed worry that a government organisation such as LASTMA could hold such training on a church premises where the Muslim officers would not have the right to worship during the camp period. He said: “We are dismayed by what LASTMA authorities are alleged to have done. Can it be true? In the first place, why did a whole government agency pick the premises of a religious group to train its officers? Why were draconian rules rolled out over the use of the same religious premises for people of another faith? Why pick such a place ab initio if harsh and repressive conditionalities were going to be applied? “About 10 Muslim officers were alleged to have attempted to pray in an open space within the premises. Some Christian colleagues who saw them reported to the commander. They were all summoned and interrogated and in the end LASTMA commander was reported to have threatened to deal seriously with the Muslim officers for daring to observe Muslim prayer on a church premises. There are fears that their appointments may be terminated or they would be dismissed.” But Oduyoye said LASTMA had no reason to and didn’t oppose praying in their individual room while in the camp but never wanted anyone to be separated from the training in the name of worship or other things.