Cristiano Ronaldo scored his first Juventus goal since October to rescue a 2-2 draw at home to Sassuolo, as the Italian champions dropped points for only third time this season. Leonardo Bonucci fired Juve into the lead with 20 minutes played in Turin, but an exquisite finish from Sassuolo winger Jérémie Boga levelled the scores just three minutes later, reports Reuters. Francesco Caputo then put the visitors in front soon after the break with his seventh of the season. The striker pounced following a defensive mix-up and an error by keeper Gianluigi Buffon. Maurizio Sarri brought Paulo Dybala on for Federico Bernardeschi with 53 minutes played. The Argentinian made an immediate impact, grazing the bar with a free kick after Ronaldo had a goal ruled out for offside. Dybala was then brought down in the box by Filippo Romagna, and Ronaldo stepped up from the penalty spot to equalise and end his four-match goal drought. Sassuolo’s 18-year-old goalkeeper, Stefano Turati, kept the visitors level with a save from Paulo Dybala, and then recovered from an error to stop Aaron Ramsey’s shot from trickling over the line.
It all happened so quickly, I never expected this,” said Turati, who was called up by Roberto De Zerbi on the night before the game. “It was an incredible day for me.”
Sevilla climb to second in La Liga  Sevilla moved up to second place, behind Real Madrid, with their ninth league win of the season – but had to work hard for a narrow 1-0 win over bottom club Leganés. Diego Carlos struck the only goal in the 63rd minute of an end-to-end game. The defender blasted the ball into the roof of the net from close range after Jules Koundé’s overhead kick was parried. Leganés are much-improved under Mexican coach Javier Aguirre and they produced a gutsy and bold display, creating numerous chances to score. Moroccan forward Youssef En-Nesyri narrowly missed with a bicycle kick early in the second half, before Carlos struck for the hosts.  The visitors laid siege to the Sevilla area in stoppage time but Julen Lopetegui’s side held on, extending their unbeaten run to 10 games – but the head coach was far from happy.
“We can’t kid ourselves, we need to improve a lot,” Lopetegui said. “We should have tried to keep playing attractive football and we would have created more chances, but sometimes you play badly and win, or play well but you lose.”