 Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, paid an unscheduled visit to Kaduna State, where he held a closed door meeting with Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai. The meeting, which took many, including government officials by surprise, according to sources at the Kaduna State Government House, might not be unconnected with the politics of the 2023 presidency. Speculations have been rife concerning the interest of the Kaduna State governor, who served as Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the Obasanjo administration, to contest the 2023 presidential election. Obasanjo, who heaped praises on el-Rufai for what he described as the governor’s “nationalistic cabinet,” added that any job given to him would be ‘done very well.’ The former president also noted that the Kaduna State governor is “one of the best persons to work with. “He (el-Rufai) is a near genius,” he said. The former president went down memory lane to recall el-Rufai’s spat with the Senate as minister and the upper legislative chamber’s insistence that he must apologise to it, but pointed out that “he (el-Rufai) refused to write a letter of apology to the Senate.” “We need a character like this; a man that you know where he stands. Any job given to him will be well done,” Obasanjo said, assuring the people of Kaduna State that they “have a good leader to work with.” The former president further described el-Rufai as a good student because he copied the gender inclusiveness of his administration, “I made women to matter in my government. He has done the same in Kaduna. So, he is a very good learner.” Obasanjo said his visit to Kaduna is like home-coming even as he described himself as a son of the soil, having lived in Kaduna from 1959 to 1967 and built his first house in Makera area of the town. According to the two-time Nigerian leader, he was at the Mogadishu Battalion in Kaduna between 1959 and 1967. On his part, Governor el-Rufai described the former president as a mentor, adding that he learnt many public service skills from him. The governor thanked Obasanjo for finding time to come to Kaduna to see things for himself.