A few people familiar with this column have asked about my thoughts on how the Department of State Services (DSS), Nigeria’s main domestic intelligence agency has handled the arrest and re-arrest of Omoyele Sowore and the disgraceful manner in which they tried to abduct him from a court of law. To start with, I am not a fan of Sowore, the former student union leader turned presidential candidate in Nigeria’s 2019 presidential election. Impulsive with a penchant for the melodramatic, he does not appear to have changed much from the swash-buckling student unionist whose grasp of Nigeria’s complex issues is just about skin deep. Nonetheless, I stand with others who have condemned his arrest and the entire manner his case has been bungled by the Buhari administration. I also disagree with the charge of treason levelled against him. I am not too sure that a charge of treason can be made to stick on a person just for merely calling for a revolution without taking any step to violently upstage an existing political order. It would appear that the government is beginning to understand that it messed up big time in the way it has handled the Sowore matter and all it can do now is to engage in damage control aimed at setting him free as well as quietly dropping the case. The optics do not bode well for the government both internally and in the international arena. I have closely watched the ex-University of Lagos graduate in the last few years. He does not appear to be someone with a sound grasp of Nigeria’s complicated developmental issues. And I don’t think he has a well-thought-out alternative paradigm to getting the country out of the quagmire. But he has cleverly tapped into the frustration of the Nigerian youth. Yet, his prognosis of unleashing anarchy and letting the future take care of the rest cannot be an alternative to the current mess. I noticed that he did not enunciate any coordinated socio-economic plan during his political campaign leading up to the 2019 presidential campaign beyond an expectation that his relative youthfulness and record of student union activism slogans will pave the way for him. But the reality of the outside world goes beyond the idealism of youth and campus life. Life is far more complicated than claiming to be a socialist without a plan. A call for revolution without a well thought alternative paradigm is a mere invitation to anarchy. Despite the groundswell of anger and frustration at our self-swerving elite, and I am not too sure that calling for a revolution without an idea of what will happen thereafter is going to solve Nigeria’s complex problems. The last thing we want to do as a nation is to jump from frying pan into fire. It is, however, important to separate the messenger from the message. Sowore is not many people’s cup of tea, and he is certainly not mine, though he has his admirers. His message of revolution obviously resonates with the majority who have impoverished by decades of unending bad leadership. Corruption is unabated and the high cost of governance is killing Nigeria. The infrastructural deficits make living in Nigeria from one day to another a hellish experience and the lack of employment for the millions of Nigerian youths aimlessly roaming the streets makes them pliant tools in the hands of opportunistic elements. The extreme hunger in the land and the mass frustration and anger predisposes Nigerians to listen to any demagogue who chants the mantra of violent change. Revolution sounds like sweet music in the ears of the deprived. If there is any lesson to be learnt from the Sowore fiasco, it is that the frustration of Nigerians is at an all-time high. Joblessness and extreme poverty have become the lot of the majority as they watch politicians make so much money for doing little and wantonly display ill-gotten wealth. It is getting to a point that something might just give, and the demagogues might just have their way. •Dr. Raufu, a former Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief of National Mirror Newspapers, is of the Texas Southern University, Houston, Texas, United States.