T he European Union (EU) Delegation in Nigeria has asked the Federal Government to ensure it follows the due process of the law in handling the vexed issue of the detained activist and publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyole Sowore, as well as other detainees in Nigeria.  On its part, the House of Representatives has mandated its joint committees on national security and intelligence, judiciary, and human rights to investigate the invasion of a Federal High Court in Abuja by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) to re-arrest the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Sowore, in the court premises.  The delegation said it has been following closely the developments and hoped that the justice system in Nigeria will do all that is necessary to ensure that the rights of citizens to freedom of expression and personal liberty were not trampled upon.  EU Ambassador to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, stated this yesterday at an event organised by the European Union Delegation to Nigeria and the British Council to mark the 2019 International Human Rights Day in Nigeria.  Karlsen, who was responding to question on various incidents of human rights violations in Nigeria, noted that the EU would remain firm on the principle of freedom of speech.  He described the concept of free expression as a fundamental pillar of democracy which is enshrined in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights Convention as well as the European Convention on Human Rights. “In any democratic society, there is the need for people to be able to express themselves freely and be able to participate as long as they do so peacefully. This is a crucial element of democracy.  “As a matter of principle, it is important that when somebody is detained, there is a due process and the justice system provides access to justice. As always, it is not for the European Union or the EU Ambassador to interfere in the democratic process in the countries where we operate, but it goes without saying that we are following the issue (Sowore’s detention saga) very closely and as much as we can. We hope that there will be due process and that the justice system will do all that is necessary for detainees to access justice,” he said.  The event was organised around two panel discussions on pressing issues affecting ordinary citizens in Nigeria namely, Law Enforcement, Citizen Liberties and the Rule of Law in Nigeria as well as Sexual and Gender Based Violence in Nigeria. It was also the grand finale of the 16 Days of Activism Against Gender Based Violence in Nigeria. According to Karlsen, given the long years of struggles to ensure that human rights were equally guaranteed to all without regards to gender, one would have expected that everything would be rosy by now. “But as we all know, I think that is not the case. We must not take human rights for granted because everywhere you go, either in the European Union, Africa or Nigeria; we still have issues of human rights. So we must not give up the fight for human rights in general and women’s right in particular.  “People have said that women’s rights are human rights, but it seems that sometimes it is not exactly the case as we have seen with the increasing cases of gender-based violence,” he said.  Karlsen attributed the increasing rate of gender-based violence in Nigeria on a number of factors, including socio-cultural practices and conflicts in some parts of the country.  He urged the generality of Nigerians, especially the celebrities and social media influencers, to advance the agitation of zero tolerance for gender-based violence beyond the ceremony. The event had in attendance an array of Nigerian celebrities. Meanwhile, the resolution of the House to investigate the invasion of the Abuja court by the DSS was consequent upon the adoption of a motion sponsored by the minority leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu (PDP-Delta) on the “invasion of the Federal High Court premises, Abuja by yet-to-be-identified persons.” Leading debate on the motion, Elumelu described the invasion of the court by the unidentified persons as “disregard for the rule of law”.  He informed that: “The videos emerging in public domain shows these unidentified person trying to bundle Omoyele Sowore and his co-accused, Olawale Bakare, away from the courtroom room, while Sowore’s supporters were resisting them, which is an abuse to the sanctity of the courtroom.”  The lawmaker expressed concern that “men of the civil society” claimed that the unidentified masked men were DSS agents.  “The DSS has denied through their spokesman, Peter Afunanya, that its personnel were never involved in the incident.  “Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, guarantee the separation of powers and the independence of every arm of government.  “A situation where one arm is seen to be overpowering another in the course of dispensing its duties will definitely spell doom for the separation of powers as enshrined in the constitution.”  He also expressed worry that the “act of the persons disrupted judicial proceedings and made the presiding judge to abandon her duty post because of safety concerns.”  He said that if the action was not properly checked, the National Assembly “may one day be invaded and the relevant security agencies will claim not knowing who the offenders are.” He also said that the physical assault on Sowore and his co-defendant, Bakare, by the yet-to-be-identified persons inside the courtroom was the “highest act of sacrilege” on the judiciary.  The motion was unanimously endorsed when Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila put it to question.