In its determination to boost Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the country, the Federal Government has concluded plans to introduce a new visa regime in 2020. Reports by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) as well as “Trading Economics”, show that FDI flows to Nigeria stood at $1.9 billion in 2018, even as it was said to have recorded a rise by $909.54 million in the second quarter of 2019.  The Comptroller-General of Immigration (CGI), Mr. Mohammad Babandede, who conveyed the government’s plan for a new visa regime, said the move will serve as an incentive to foreigners wishing to invest in the country. Babandede, who spoke at the end-of-year dinner and award night, disclosed that the new policy will be unveiled by the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, before the end of the year.  “The e-visa policy will encourage investors to Nigeria, thereby generating FDI for Nigeria and making the country a most preferred destination through transparency in administration and facilitation of facilities by service,” the CGI said. The Immigration Chief assured of transparency in the new regime, while noting that national security will not be compromised.  He said: “I assure you that it will be transparent and we will remove cash payment and ensure no security is compromised. “It is a balance between facilitation, transparency and protection of national security.”   To achieve this, Babandede stated that an efficient border security, migration management, will be emplaced, with a view to strengthening existing security architecture. Speaking on the award ceremony, the CGI said it was important to recognise officials who contributed immensely to the realisation of the NIS’ set goals for the year. Specifically, Babandede said the award was in the category of gallantry, bravery, resourcefulness, innovativeness, and expertise demonstrated in the course of duty.   He further disclosed that, in the course of duties, errant personnel were punished for various acts of misconduct, as deterrence to others. “Having worked tirelessly throughout the year, we should dedicate a day to commend those who have served well, and this would also serve as an example to others, so they can follow the path. “As you are aware, we are a regimented institution.   We have done all we can in 2019 by dismissing officers for corruption, absenteeism, reduction of ranks of officers and investigating those who took money from applicants or ordinary Nigerians illegally. “Governance is not only about punishing people every day.   It is also about rewarding and bridging gaps between officers and men, by coming together, dining, dancing and rejoicing,” Babandede stated. According to the Service’s spokesperson, Mr. Sunday James, a Deputy Comptroller of Immigration (DCI), the recipients of the awards were drawn from commands across the country, “for gallantry, bravery, resourcefulness, innovativeness, expertise in the course of their duties within the year 2019.” The award night also featured the presentation of award to the CGI, by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Georgina Ekeoma Ehuria.