Chief Lanre Razak is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a member of the Lagos State Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC). In this chat with some journalists in Lagos, he took a critical look at the exploits of the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, describing him as a unique man and builder of important personalities. OLALEKAN OSIADE brings excerpts…  As a member of the GAC, how would you react to the insinuations from some critics who alleged that Lagos State is in the grip hands of former governor Bola Tinubu?  It is regrettable that, with all the good works Tinubu has been doing for humanity and party politics, some people don’t see anything commendable about the man. We have a lot of armchair critics who don’t see anything good in whatever Tinubu does. Can you mention any state that has stable governance and continuous development like Lagos?  This is because Tinubu has been playing the role of a leader, such that during his tenure as governor, he laid a standard structure for the state to continue on the path of growth and development. He is a wonderful man that is naturally gifted in human capital development.  But some people have argued that the impacts are not showing after his tenure. Rather there had been new challenges which subsequent governors braced up to. Isn’t that true?   Look at the political terrain in Nigeria today, you will hardly find the likes of Tinubu around. Those he worked hard to develop are now giving back to the country. Those who know what Tinubu means for Nigeria have continued to defend him, letting others understand that Tinubu is naturally gifted and he is impacting knowledge and ability on others.  With all these accolades and political praises being showered on Tinubu, do you see him actually throwing his hat in the ring for the 2023 Presidency?  Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, I can declare that Tinubu is the best material the South West can produce, if he declares to contest.  What Nigeria needs is the best material for the job and for the best material to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, the APC national leader still stands shoulder higher than most of the people being canvassed for.  Don’t you think that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is better placed, having been in the saddle with Buhari? More so, when some people are saying it is the turn of Christians.  With due regard and respect to our brother, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, he is a lawyer of fine reputation, but nobody would have known him in the political circle if Tinubu had not found and built him.  What Nigerians often say is that leadership is the bane of our development, if we then found a good leader with all the quality to deliver. We should put religion out of it. We need to talk of how we can have a country where there is peace, development and appropriate infrastructure.  Do you truly believe that Tinubu will run in 2023?   Tinubu is a tested person at the state level and in business circles. He is a man that has the capacity and rigour of running a nation. He is my candidate and we are appealing to him to please come out and serve his country, and I am sure     he will accept the offer.  How can the South-West harmonise ahead of next general election?  There is no region all over the world that does not have crisis, when talking about the acquisition of power; it is believed that power is never served as food in the restaurant. People struggle and work to get what they need. We are aware of what people are saying and I can assure you that we have sufficient crisis management mechanisms that the leadership of the party will deploy at the appropriate time. What you consider as crisis may be our strength to get things done.  Why has it been difficult for Lagos State to be given a special status despite being an APC state?    The situation is very clear. Lagos as an APC state has achieved a lot. One, the Federal Government House at Marina has been transferred to Lagos State. All the outstanding bills for roads repaired on behalf of the Federal Government had been paid, except the new ones embarked on in recent time.   In the last 10 years, Lagos State has appealed for FG’s support and approval of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to continue the deep sea projects at Lagos Free Trade Zone in Ibeju Lekki and Badagry, which was not given, but under this administration, we are doing fine and our developmental efforts are being fast-tracked. And they will do more.  Many people think that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is not living up to the billing considering the gaps being currently experienced in the area of traffic congestion?   People say a lot, but I don’t know of the gaps.  Are we saying that Sanwo-Olu has not done anything since he came into power? Has he not been working?  People don’t just come into government without critically studying the situation on ground. And they do this with the aim of applying sufficient experience to get the best for the people. If some people are saying the roads are bad, they should know that this is so because Lagos State has never had the quantum of rain it experienced this year in the last 25 years.  Is that why the government will leave the masses to bear the burden?  Governor Sanwo-Olu cannot waste taxpayers’ money to repair roads that will get washed away almost immediately. We have to bear the pains for a little while, and now that the dry season is here, you would have seen that Lagos roads are now being fixed.  In the next two months, things will get better. We appeal to our people to exercise some patience and pay their taxes to support the government.  What is your take on the states’ rising debt profile even as some people argued that the IGR and federal allocation are enough to address the challenges, instead of borrowing?  It is very easy to cross the river on the map. Those saying so do not know what the money is being used for and the exact amount the state is spending. I can tell you authoritatively that the people in government today are very prudent with public funds and are applying it to the best interest of Lagosians.  So, we don’t need to worry and no need for anybody to be crying more than the bereaved.  We have given the mandate to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and we know him too well before we did that. He and his team are doing very serious financial re-engineering of funds and resources available to the state.  How do you see the complaints against the recently approved N250 billion loan?   Lagosians need to understand that those who extend credit to Lagos State government strongly believe in the state’s ability to repay.  Another good thing to consider is the economic benefit of the projects that would be executed with the loan. If we don’t borrow today, the cost may be twice, when the projects are to be executed later.  So, it is logical, reasonable and economical to borrow and it is good for the state.