H uman Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), yesterday, flayed the Presidency and the Department of State Services (DSS) over the re-arrest of the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, inside the courtroom. The advocacy group described the incident as “outrageous and primitive” and called for the dismissal of the Director-General of DSS, Alhaji Yusuf Bichi.   In a statement jointly signed by the National Coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, and the National Media Affairs Director, Miss Zainab Yusuf, the group also frowned at the attempt made by the DSS spokesperson to exculpate his agency “from the abominable defecation of the Temple of Justice.”   It said: “This invasion of the Federal High Court, just like the invasion of the National Assembly by 100 hooded armed security forces of the DSS and the invasion of the residences of Justices of the nation’s Supreme Court and Federal High Court, are symptomatic of the increasing desire of the administration to institute arbitrariness and anarchy and then to elevate impunity and official lawlessness to a state policy which will culminate in the ultimate collapse of constitutional democracy and the emergence of full dictatorship.”   HURIWA’s statement came against the backdrop of claim by the DSS spokesperson, Peter Afunanya, that Sowore acted a well-rehearsed script to give the world the impression that its agents arrested him inside a courtroom. According to the rights group, there is no justifiable reason for an institution created by statute to actively invade the sacred sanctum of the Federal High Court and employ brute force to arbitrarily re-arrest two Nigerian citizens who were already on bail granted to them by a competent court of law.   It insisted that the half-baked efforts by reactionary forces aligned to the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to explain away the weighty issues connected with the invasion of the courtroom of Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu “makes the government appear to be totally cut off from reality.”   HURIWA added: “This attempt to paint black what is white and to deny an event recorded on video and circulated all over the world will present the government as a bunch of people who are in the business of canonizing falsehoods and adopting naked lies as the hallmarks of the current administration.  “This is a serious disservice to the Nigerian State and these crude tendencies will harm the international image of the country for a long time to come.”  The group declared that the action of the DSS operatives cannot possibly find any rational, empirical and constitutional support since it “amounted to a gross disrespect for the sanctity of the judiciary.”   “It is comical and irrational that the spokesman for the President of a constitutional democracy in the 21st Century can be seen arguing that a citizen who has already been granted bail by the court of competent jurisdiction can be rearrested over very nebulous and incoherent reasons that find no justification in law and for which same reasons framed as criminal charges are already before the court of law and during which pendency the presiding judge, Her Lordship Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, had graciously exercised her constitution power of discretion and granted bail to the accused, thereby rendering his second arrest as an exercise in erection of double jeopardy,” it said.  The group, however, urged President Buhari to desist from abusing his powers and office, saying “political power is transient.”