•Call for outright cancellation of deal, abrogation of 1% CISS  Experts in Customs operation and Nigeria port industry have raised a fresh alarm on the controversial Customs Modernisation Project, otherwise known as e-Customs project, calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to cancel the deal out rightly or risk having the country lose a whooping sum N1trillion to the yet to be identified promoters of the project and their foreign collaborators.   They described the project as a scheme concocted by the promoters to lay their hands on the 1per cent Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS) fund collected saved for the Federal Government by the Nigeria Customs Service.  The Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed suspended the contract a couple of weeks ago. She had directed compliance to the order of the legislature through the ministry’s Permanent Secretary for the suspension of the $300 million Customs modernisation contract following a resolution and letter addressed to her by the House of Representatives.  In the letter titled ” Suspension of Proposed Concession Arrangement for the Customs Modernisation Project”, jointly signed by James Faleke, Chairman Finance; Jerry Alagbaoso, Chairman Public Petition and Yuguda Hassan Kila, Chairman Customs, the lawmakers described the proposed concession as curious The letter with reference number NASS/ CHR/9/2019/JOINT/001 dated October 30, 2019, sources disclosed resulted to the minister directing the Permanent Secretary for compliance   They wrote: “The House of Representatives on Thursday 10th October 2019 at the plenary passed resolution No. HR132/10/2019 mandating a joint committee on Finance, Customs and Public Petitions to investigate the curious proposed concession agreement between the consortium Bionaca Technologies West Africa Limited- Sponsors) ,Bergman Security Consultant and Supplies – (Co sponsors), African Finance Corporation (lead financiers) and Huawei (lead technical service provider).”   The lawmakers added their action is pursuant to Section 88 (1)( a) and (b) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria , as amended , which confers on the National Assembly power to conduct investigations They urged all parties involved including the Nigeria Customs Service and Infrastructure Concession and Regulatory Commission to maintain the “Status Quo Ante pending outcome of investigation” Speaking to the Sunday Telegraph on the suspension, prominent freight forwarder and former president of thw National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Dr Eugene Nweke lauded the minister for complying with the order of the House of Representatives. He, however, called on President Buhari to cancel the contract and institute a probe of the project.  “If what we are reading on the pages of newspapers is anything to go by, everything about the deal is fraud because as at today, Nigeria Customs Service is undergoing reformation and modernistion that has digitalized most of its operations. That modernization reflects on its revenue which in recent times has consistently remained above one trillion naira year-on-year. It is in view of that I strongly advising Mr. President to cancel it out rightly.” He said: “From 2013 to September 2019, total CISS collected, for 20 years when the alleged bogus contract is supposed to last over N1 trillion will be collected and will go into the pockets of the unknown Nigerian promoters of this false project and their foreign collaborators.”   He commended the House of Reps for resolving to conduct an investigation into the deal, saying the House should organise a Public Hearing on the matter for industry operators knowledgeable on Nigeria Customs transformation to come forward and throw more light on why it is needless for the country to itself to be conned of such huge sums of money. Dr Nweke had earlier called on President Buhari in an Open Letter to abrogate the collection of the one per cent CISS, saying it has no function and has continued to attract unpatriotic Nigerians who always want to lay their hands on the national treasury.   In the letter titled “Re: Agitation for the Concession of the e-Customs Modernization – An Appeal To Restore and Preserve National Interests,” Dr Nweke said: “ We hereby call on Your Excellency, Mr. President, to officially, cancel the continuous collection of 1% of FOB value -tagged as; Comprehensive Inspection Supervision Scheme -CISS, a cost functionless fee, still imposed on the shippers under the Nigeria Customs Services administration of the PAAR regime.”   In the same vain, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Vanguard for Democracy, has called for a probe of the deal. In the organisation’s official Facebook page, it urged the concerned committees of the House of Representatives to expedite action on the probe aimed at revealing the details about the deal. “We are calling on the House Joint Committee on Finance, Customs and Public Petitions to hasten their efforts at unearthing the facts surrounding this deal.  “We the citizens demand that the House breaks its silence and make facts available to the public on the issue surrounding this $300 million deal that has question marks all over it. We need answers,” it posted.  