The debate on removal of Value Added Tax (VAT) on Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), also known as cooking gas, is one of the key issues that took the center stage at the Conference of Nigeria Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association (NLPGA). Adeola Yusuf, in this report, takes a look at the issues and their effects on the economy   Government, like the phenomenal Oliver Twist, is yet to be satisfied with the relative feats it has recorded in the gas sector. The market share of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) also known as cooking gas hit 635,452.061MT by end of December 2018 but the government felt that this share could further be enlarged to be 1, 000, 000 MT before the end of the year. The highest body of stakeholders in the cooking gas industry, Nigeria Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association (NLPGA), while putting this in perspectives, declared that the recent removal of Value Added Tax (VAT) on locally produced LPG would encourage fall in price and increase in demand. President of NLPGA, Mr. Nuhu Yakubu, at the 9th Conference and Exhibition of the association, expressed optimism that the target by government for domestic LPG market share to reach a milestone of 1,000,000 MT before end of December 2019 could be achieved if all stakeholders keep doing the right thing. Going back and forth The Federal Government had earlier confirmed the removal of VAT on LPG. This means that the cost is supposed to be relatively stable, thus attracting many investors and users in the country. The Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, who disclosed this at the stakeholders’ meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in Abuja, recently said the measure was targeted at growing the LPG sector. The Federal Government had earlier in the year promised to remove VAT on cooking gas to encourage utilisation of the product in many households. Effects of removal Though the removal of VAT on LPG will definitely deny overnment the revenue it has been making from this avenue, the stakeholders at the NLPGA conference and exhibition maintained that the removal would boost the gains in the sector. Vice Presiddent Osinbajo had explained that specifically, for household cooking, the present administration was targeting a 40 per cent adoption rate (i.e. 13.8m households) in five years, and 73 per cent adoption in 10 years (33.3m households). “We believe that the sub-sector can create up to 2 million new direct and indirect jobs in Nigeria. Our determination to prioritise the LPG sector development culminated in the Federal Executive Council’s approval of the National Gas Policy in 2017, with dedicated input for the enhancement of the LPG sub-sector. “Our driving vision has been to transform the sub-sector from a commodity sector based on export to a value creation sector based on domestic utilisation and industrialisation,” he said. These targets of 40 per cent and 73 per cent adoptions by households in Nigeria, Yakubu said while addressing delegates at the conference, would be achieved with execution of right policies by the government and support from all the stakeholders. Like the NLPGA boss, the Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Retails Limited, Dr. Billy Okoye, also maintained that lack of clear cut government policy on autogas utilisation by Nigerian motorists had slowed growth in demand. Surge in market share Quoting data from Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPRA), Okoye said in a presentation at the NLPGA conference that a surge in LPG market share from 635,452.061MT by end of December 2018 to 1,000,000 MT would be achieved before end of December 2019. The Nigerian LPG demand, he said in the presentation entitled; “Supply, Demand and Pricing Outlook: The impact of international LPG market in Nigeria,” would grow incrementally on the back of Federal Government’s LPG Expansion and Penetration Programme. He said; “The lack of clear cut FGN policy on autogas utilisation by Nigerian motorists has slowed growth in autogas demand and a removal of VAT on locally produced LPG by the FG will also encourage increase in demand as prices fall. “Historically, international demand for LPG declines in the summer months due to reduction in heating requirements. Conversely, local demand rises during those months due to falling prices locally & internationally.” The establishment of a cylinder manufacturing plant by Techno Oil in Lagos, he continued, would also increase cylinder circulation countrywide leading to rise in product demand. “High prices and steady demand in international market has led to export  of a significant volume of locally produced LPG. Price parity between international market prices and local prices has been achieved via volumes supplied by NLNG into the domestic market. This is because the NLNG LPG price is based on the Monte Belvieu price of the product plus a quoted price factor (QPF).” Other stakeholders added that the gaps in in-country LPG infrastructure had led to storage and distribution challenges, hence making the international market more attractive. They, however, expressed optimism about increase in the market share of the LPG in the country. This optimism, Okoye said, was buoyed by a number of efforts being put in place by the Federal Government and the NLPGA. These include inland storage capacity of about 42,500MT, which is available in LPG depots across Nigeria’s undulating and vast coastline. “There are over 555 operational gas plants with 95 per cent owned by independent marketers. In-country production is about 5,000,000 MTPA with over 90 per cent of that volume exported while 10 per cent is consumed locally. “The Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme presents an opportunity for growth in LPG supply in Nigeria. It is estimated that 600,000 MT of LPG per year can be produced from the 178 flare sites the programme intends to commercialise. “The Nigeria Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) Oredo facility should also increase supply, adding around 120,000 MTPA to in-country LPG production when it comes on stream,” he said. Market forces On the relationship between the international market forces and the Nigeria LPG market demand, the NNPC Retails Limited boss said: “In global context, demand for LPG is expected to rise in line with supply as both energy and non-energy end-users capitalise. “The incremental consumption will be driven by the petrochemical and residential sector while residential demand of LPG for cooking is expected to grow in developing world markets. “Other sectors are likely to remain flat.  Asia will be the key source of incremental demand, and the demand for LPG in both the residential cooking and petrochemical sector in Asia will see demand soar. “OECD and Latin American markets are saturated or declining. Some incremental demand in Europe and North America for LPG is a feedstock. Demand in Africa will grow, but from a low base. Petrochemicals demand for LPG is driven by Asia, with other regions contributing. “A combination of propane-dehydrogenation and steam-cracking will lead to significant incremental demand from this sector. Global demand for Autogas has likely peaked. Average growth of total Autogas demand since the beginning of the decade is three per cent.” The rise in demand The LPG business, checks showed, will likely be boosted in Nigeria, as the Nigerian LNG Limited, a major local producer has indicated interest in increasing supply, while demand for LPG is on the rise. In a message obtained from its website, the company stated: “NLNG commenced the supply of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), otherwise known as cooking gas, to the domestic market in 2007 when refineries became challenged and supply was grossly inadequate. Since then, the issue of inadequate supply has become a thing of the past. “The intervention, which is in line with company’s vision of helping to build a better Nigeria, has significantly contributed to the stimulation and development of the domestic LPG market in Nigeria and has effectively brought down the price of cooking gas from over N7, 000 in 2007 to less than N3, 500 per 12.5kg cylinder today. “NLNG is committed to delivering 350,000 tonnes of LPG into the Nigerian market annually and has signed Sales and Purchase Agreements (SPAs) with fifteen off-takers (all Nigerian companies) for the lifting of LPG for the domestic market.” Commendation The Nigerian Association of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Marketers (NALPGAM), an auxiliary of NLPGA, said that the removal of VAT on cooking gas by the Federal Government would deepen market penetration, boost the country’s economy and protect the environment. President, NALPGAM, Mr. Nosa Ogieva-Okunbor, stated this, noting that the removal of VAT on cooking gas supply to marketers by Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) would attract more investors and reduce importation into the country. “This removal of VAT on Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), popularly known as cooking gas, has crashed the price of cooking gas by about 30 per cent in the market. “Currently, a 12.5kg bottle of gas which was N4,300 now sells for between N2,500 and N2,700 and has also deepened household usage of cooking gas,” he said. Ogieva-Okunbor said the association would take effective steps to deepen the use of LPG and increase local consumption from the current 700,000 metric tonnes to 1,000,000 metric tonnes annually. He said that the target could increase to about five million metric tonnes by 2025 if stakeholders in the sector adhere to standards. “If achieved, Nigeria will join the league of nations with a high level of LPG consumption,” he said. The president also stressed the need for reduction of import duty on LPG equipment so as to encourage more investors to come in and deepen LPG consumption in the country. He, however, expressed concern over growing indiscriminate establishment of gas plants in filling stations, which he said pose a great danger to the citizenry and the economy. Ogieva-Okunbor said that the association was not against establishments of such plants but insisted that they must operate with the same Standard operating procedure applicable to standard gas plants as laid down by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). He noted that the right procedure for petrol filling stations to dispense cooking gas was for them to retail already filled gas cylinders. Ogieva-Okunbor added that DPR had given a directive for the removal of gas plants in fuelling stations by December 2020. Last line While the government is commended for its step on the cooking gas, it should be noted, however, that over two months after the announcement of VAT removal on cooking gas, the price of the commodity has not witnessed any tremendous decline. Like the stakeholders at the NLPGA confab said, other areas of growth like a well articulated policy on autogas utilisation should be pursued so that the little gains achieved in LPG market could be strongly rooted.