It was encomiums for President Muhammadu Buhari at the recent four-day 42nd African Parliamentary Union (APU) Conference held in the East African country of Djibouti as the Chief Whip of the Nigerian Senate and leader of Nigerian delegation to the conference, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, enumerated the Federal Government’s Social Investment Programme (SIP) and its constitutional support for youth participation in governance in Nigeria. The 42nd session of the African Parliamentary Union drew legislators from Across 40 countries of the continent gathered with renewed energy for the development of the continent as a whole and more inclusion of all segments of the African society. Kalu, while delivering his address at the conference, canvassed for youth participation in governance in Nigeria and other African countries. He cited Federal Government’s efforts at empowering youths’ participation in governance through the signing of the Not Too Young to Run Bill by President Buhari in May 2019. Senator Kalu further cited the Federal Government’s school feeding and social reinvestment programmes like the N-Power all of which according to him, are aimed at empowering the youth via job creation. Kalu’s address on the President Buhari’s efforts on youth empowerment generated cheers and commendations from other African lawmakers gathered at the conference. His words: “On the issue of youths, President Muhammadu Buhari has already signed an act that constitutionally allows all youths of about 25 years and above to contest for seats in the House of Representatives and other similar positions. In Nigeria, we have many social programmes, one of which is the N-Power programme in which youths are engaged in a paid internship skill acquisition programme by the Federal Government. “We also have the school feeding programme, where school children are fed daily.  So, we are giving young men and women opportunities to participate in all levels of governance in Nigeria. It is a partnership between the elders and the young people, we need to do a lot more to create a better environment, where youths will be participatory in the democratic environment. “So, the environment needs to protect the youth, so that we can create new jobs and break new grounds. I want to thank the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives for sending this powerful delegation to attend this conference and for giving us this opportunity of representing Nigeria and we shall continue to do better for the next four years. “It is going to be interesting and interactive and we shall place Nigeria at a vintage position. President Buhari has asked us to go across the globe to make more friends for Nigeria and attract non-oil investment to the country and we are calling on our businessmen to support this drive. For me, everything we are doing would be centred on economic diplomacy.” The four day conference concentrated on four areas of strategic importance to the African continent such as maternal and infant mortality as well as youth empowerment. Also discussed at the conference were the issue of regional integration and the overall development of Africa, which have been the core themes at various African summits. Deputy Chairman, APU’s Executive Committee, Tarek Radwan, who spoke on the disenfranchisement of women in governance, stressed the need to give youths the opportunity to take up specific roles in various African countries. “We have seen a lot of segregation against women, but I believe it is time to empower youths to assume leadership roles in their respective countries. I am happy to see an enthusiastic delegation representing sister countries, and respectful, a country like Nigeria, and among discussions with these countries was how to enhance the role of the youths in a special committees,” he said. Canvassing significant youth participation in Africa received more attention at the African Parliamentary Union as delegates at the conference who are mostly leaders in their national parliament expressed displeasure with the level of youth involvement in governance in the continent. The delegates believe that the best constitutional support to increase youth participation in governance is the provision of quota system, especially in the parliament. President, Parliament of Djibouti, Mohammed Ali Houmed, was of the opinion that the Union should serve as a melting point for Africans and empowerment of youths. The union was also concerned with the provision of a conducive learning environment for African children to excel academically. A motion for the urgent need for the union’s financial management to be made open to the delegates was moved by Moroccan and Nigerian delegates. The Nigerian delegates raised a point of order on strict observance of the union’s rules and proceedings. Hon. Boma Goodhead (Akuku-Toru/Asari Toru, Rivers State) expressed her displeasure over lack of transparency on APU’s finances and the sidelining of Nigeria from attaining decision making sessions at the APU. Her words: “Most times we talk about transparency with finances and nobody is willing to tell us anything, so when the Moroccan delegate raised it, I had to support it because you have to tell us what you are doing with these funds. “Whenever it comes to funding, they will always ask for our assistance, but when it comes to positioning, they will always gang up together to say ‘you are our big brothers, so you should allow smaller countries to be in front.’ But I have told them it would no longer be possible. The Nigerian delegation led by Senator Kalu conveyed a sideline meeting of the five major donors to the union. The meeting tagged G5, resolved to canvass for the establishment of a Youth Committee in APU for the first time. “We shall organise them to make sure that Nigeria is involved because I found out that Nigeria is not involved in the scheme of things,” Kalu added. The G5 is also canvassing for strategic positions for the major financial donors like Nigeria, especially with the vibrancy of the Nigerian delegation as stated by the vice-chairman of the African Union Executive Committee. The union had already established other vital committees including that of women affairs.