President Muhammadu Buhari, last week, returned to the Senate for the approval of his request to borrow about $29.9 billion for development projects. The president had submitted the bill to the 8th session of the National Assembly led by former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, who refused to approve it. Many months later, Buhari, last Thursday, returned the bill to the Senate for approval. He bemoaned the attitude of the 8th Assembly, inferring that the action of the previous Senate delayed him in the implementation of key projects mapped out to be executed with the loan facility. In a letter dated November 26, 2019 and read on the floor of the Upper Chamber by the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, Buhari noted that the 8th National Assembly approved only a part of the external borrowing request forwarded to it in September 2016. He regretted that the action of the then National Assembly stalled the Federal Government’s implementation of critical projects spanning across mining, power, health, agricultural, water and education sectors. The president noted that the request was in pursuant to Sections 21 and 27 of the Debt Management Office (Establishment) Act. He said: “Specifically, the Senate is invited to note that: While I had transmitted the 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan to the Eighth National Assembly in September 2016, this plan was not approved in its entirety by the legislature; only the Federal Government’s Emergency projects for the North-East, (Four states’ projects and one China Exim Bank Assisted Railway Modernisation Projects for Lagos–Ibadan segment) were approved, out of a total of 39 projects. “The outstanding projects in the plan that were not approved by the legislature are, nevertheless, critical to the delivery of government’s policies and programmes relating to power, mining, road, agriculture, health, water and educational sectors.” Since he resubmitted the letter, it has attracted varied interest from the public. While some believe that it was the right decision, many are worried that Nigeria might be slipping into another era of debt overhang, which it exited during the era of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), for instance, raised an alarm on Sunday that Nigeria’s debt profile was rising astronomically to a dangerous level. LCCI said that between 2015 and 2019, Nigeria’s debt profile increased by N13.1 trillion from N12.6 trillion in 2015 to N25.7 trillion in 2019. The chamber, which said that it was about a 104 per cent increase, warned that the request of new $29.9 billion loan from the World Bank was troubling, considering the fragile growth of the country’s gross domestic product and low revenue earning by government. LCCI Director General, Muda Yusuf, said that members of the organised private sector were concerned with the state of the country’s growing debt profile and government’s request for a new $29.9 billion loan. We are also worried by the huge amount government intends to borrow. We are not worried just by the huge amount, but also by the proper utilisation of the loan. It is on record that Nigeria has borrowed money several times from external creditors without channelling the money to appropriate usage. Thus, the country ended up with huge loans without commensurate projects attached to them. We know for a fact that Nigeria has a parlous state of infrastructure, which goes back to several years of poor governance. We also acknowledge that there is the need to speed up some infrastructural developments across the country. We note that the Buhari government is focused on this and other ways of making the country more viable for investments and offer meaningful lives to Nigerians. But we cannot forget in haste the yoke huge debts imposed on Nigeria before Obasanjo achieved the write-off of some loans by the World Bank and Paris Club. But since then, Nigeria has been borrowing again. Yet, across the country, public infrastructure remained dilapidated, with little or nothing to show for the loans or accruals from oil sales. Currently, the Buhari government has expanded the nation’s revenue base through massive taxation, recoveries from looted funds, loans from China and similar ones. Still, the country wants to borrow another $29.9 billion at this time. While we are not opposed to borrowing, which is an essential part of development, we are worried that the debts are piling up and would even be more if the request, as expected, is approved by the Senate. We then ask: What is the method of repayment? For how long is Nigeria going to repay such debts? What are the implications for the future generations and the nation’s long term economic plans? We ask those questions because we are aware that government is already spending a large chunk of the nation’s budget on debt servicing. In the 2020 budget, estimated at N10.33 trillion, Nigeria will spend almost a quarter to service debts. That is why we believe that the Federal Government should take it easy with external borrowing. We support the regeneration of infrastructure, but we believe that government should apply discretion in borrowing massively. If not for anything, we need to prevent using half of the nation’s budget to service debts. Where it becomes extremely necessary to borrow, the monies must be utilised judiciously for the sake of the future of the country.