The crisis between the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole and governor of his home state, Edo, Godwin Obaseki, took another turn for the worse last week. The Edo State House of Assembly declared the seats of 12 members-elect loyal to Oshiomhole, who had not been inaugurated since June this year, vacant. The 12 members-elect had boycotted the House sittings since June when Obaseki inaugurated the house with only about nine members in attendance. Fifteen other members, who made up the 24-man assembly, were not present on the night that Obaseki proclaimed the house. But since then, it has been a see-saw situation at the house as 12 members have avoided the house, owing to their allegiance to Oshiomhole. The 12 members-elect have also refused to present themselves for inauguration into the 7th Assembly. Also affected by the latest move were two other lawmakers who had earlier been inaugurated but didn’t meet mandatory sitting requirement to continue as members of the assembly. According to the Deputy Speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Yekini Idiaye, the resolution was reached at plenary on December 4. He said that the seats declared vacant were those of Etsako West I, Etsako West II, Owan East, Owan West, Etsako Central, Etsako East and Esan Central. Others are Uhunmwonde, Oredo East, Oredo West, Egor, Ovia North East I, Ovia North East II and Ovia South West I. He stated that two of those affected from Oredo East and Owan East, were sworn in, but failed to meet the mandatory 181-day sitting requirement for a member in a calendar year. He said: “Their constituents have been complaining and have come to us that they want their voices and concerns to be heard in the House. So, people who are willing to provide quality representation have to be elected to bring the matters of the distraught constituents to the floor for debate and legislation, where necessary.” For long, the battle for supremacy between Oshiomhole and Obaseki has threatened to cause mayhem in Edo State. There had been violence, unleashing of thugs to attack both parties, suspensions of key party figures by loyalists of both sides and other sundry matters. The National Assembly has also tried in vain to intervene in the matter with court cases and injunctions pouring in to destabilise any move to subdue Obaseki. Thus, the Edo Assembly has been operating at low capacity since June, when the governor proclaimed it. There is no doubt that the constitution of the country vested the powers to proclaim the House in the governor of a state. At least, Section 105. (3) states clearly that: “Subject to the provisions of this constitution, the person elected as the governor of a state shall have power to issue a proclamation for the holding of the first session of the House of Assembly of the state concerned immediately after his being sworn in, or for its dissolution as provided in this section.” That was done by Obaseki with only nine members in attendance. The remaining members, who are majorly Oshiomhole’s men, claimed that they were not informed of the inauguration on that date. Since then, the members stayed away from the House. We do not understand why the lawmakers deny their constituents the liberty of representation in the House. We are aware that Section 109. (1) of the constitution states: “A member of a House of Assembly shall vacate his seat in the House if -(f) without just cause, he is absent from meetings of the House of Assembly for a period amounting in the aggregate to more than one-third of the total number of days during which the House meets in any one year.” The constitution provides that the House should sit for 180 days in a year. We know that between June and December 4 when the vacancy was declared, 60 days, being one-third of the number of days required by the constitution might have passed. We do not effectively know the number of days the house has spent in its sittings. But we can safely state that the crisis in Edo State, as manifested in the House, is taking a dangerous dimension. We are aware that the election for the governor of the state comes up in 2020. That is the crux of the matter and the source of the crisis between Oshiomhole and Obaseki. We are worried that with the fast and furious way the politics of the state is moving, if nothing is done to arrest the situation, the country might witness a crisis it did not plan for in Edo State. What is obvious now is that both parties are not willing to pull back and allow peace reign. That is why we think that time has come for the Presidency and the leadership of APC to put a stop to the crisis in the state by calling both the governor and the party chairman to order. Otherwise, anarchy is looming in Edo State.