Reverend Mother Esther Abimbola Ajayi, popularly known as ‘Iya Adura’ is the founder of the Love of Christ Generation (LOC) Generation Church, C & S United Kingdom. The Reverend Mother is known for her unflinching acts of giving, freeing people from the shackles of poverty and donating to worthy causes through her foundation, Esther Ajayi Foundation. She speaks with ABIOLA ALABA PETERS on her various charity works, social media gossips about her and why she decided to relocate from United Kingdom to Nigeria  Who exactly is Esther Ajayi?   Rev Mother Abimbola Esther Ajayi is a God-fearing person that God has been kind to and who is under the special grace of God.   To start with, you have been frequent in Nigeria and other countries of the world, how do you now manage the church in London?   Whenever I am not around on a Sunday, they put me on the projector and other digital devices and I pray for the congregation. I talk to them too and I do live sessions with them. A good leader breeds leaders. There are able hands in the church running the affairs of the London church. They have gone to pastoral schools. Amazingly, my children are in the ministry and they are doing well too. If you listen to any of my children ministering, you would bless the Almighty on my behalf. I’m under God’s special grace.   Why is Esther Ajayi always giving, especially to the church? You see, I have had series of challenges, some of which helped in shaping who I am today. Having overcome these challenges, I made a decision to do whatever I can to keep hope alive in the body of Christ, who helped saw me through those challenges.   And then, you have taken your giving beyond your home country, Nigeria, what informs that?   It is about the same mission I mentioned earlier. It is part of the promise I made when I was nothing. Because God has been kind to me, I have made up my mind to use the Esther Ajayi Foundation to impact lives positively beyond what anyone could comprehend. I want to see human beings before seeing colour, nation; it is just about human first. God has been merciful to me and people know me as a being before my nationality. So, there should be no disparity. What’s the motivation behind your constant generosity and philanthropy outreach across different boards?   It is a mission to change the narrative of the society which is becoming so self-centred. Virtually everyone is concerned about themselves alone. A change starts when we change. If you cannot change, nothing will change. I think it is just surprising to people that there can be a human being like me and I want to thank God for that. The Bible says: Nobody can get anything if he is not given from above. I can’t have this if God did not give it to me. Everything lies in our hands and it depends on how you want to listen to your creator. The secret is do good and act against evil.   You recently visited the United Nations General Assembly, what was your mission?   The UN General Assembly is special to me. This is my first time of attending, though it is the 74th Assembly. I went to see the President, Professor Tijjani Mohammed-Bande, whom I always referred to as Baami Bande. I did an event at the UN on May 6, which he attended. Baami Bande was on his feet for over one hour waiting for me, making sure all our people were comfortable. He played a vital role for the success of the event which centred on the harmony of the two major white garment churches; the Cherubim and Seraphim and Celestial Church of Christ at the UN. I prophesied that he would become the president of UNGA and it came to pass. That was why I came to celebrate with him.  What is your advice for African leaders, especially Nigerian politicians? My advice is simple; you see the efforts of people like us in impacting lives have become a serious challenge to the government and many politicians in the country. It is not magic; it is about the passion and doing the will of God. Many church leaders are doing great jobs in putting smiles on the faces of many Nigerians who are hopeless. We are trying our best and it is one step at a time. There is still a lot to cover and I pray we will get there.  Is it true, you did not acquire a private jet, as widely reported in some section of the media, if yes, where did the report emanated from?  Well, it is true I did not acquire a private jet. What happened is that, the former speaker of Madagascar came to my event on May 6 at the United Nations. His sandal attracted me to him and I sought to know his country and when he mentioned Madagascar, I informed him that I was visiting there soon and we exchanged contact. I went there and saw poverty in the land. I even went to a city called Nosy Be after Madagascar. It is like what Abuja is to Nigeria. A plane flies there once a day and once you miss it, you will have to get a private jet. Those that run private jets do so for tourism purpose. So, I got there and for the first time, I was able to hire a private jet. I think my photographs were taken when I disembarked from the jet and it went all over social media that I had acquired a private jet. When the rumour came to my attention, I claimed it and I said to myself that at some point, it is going to happen to use a private jet as equipment for evangelism. To acquire a private jet is not an easy task as it requires a lot of maintenance. However, the truth is that I did not acquire a private jet.  Is it also true you relocated from the United Kingdom to Nigeria, tell us what we don’t know?  I went to the United Kingdom as a visitor in 2004. The country is a sensitive place and no matter how gigantic you are, if you don’t have the status, I mean, the papers to stay in their country, at some point, it’s going to be a problem. I went there as a poor person and came back rich. I had to come back to retrace my steps. The white believes in proper documentation. So, I want to go back to the United Kingdom as an entrepreneur. That is what I have applied for now. The record has to be clean and straight. If you are a billionaire and they don’t know you as one in their record, it is going to be a problem at some point. It is better not to wait for the problem. As I was travelling around the world, I was doing my prayers at a secret place on October 22, 2017 and the Holy Spirit told me, “Esther, my daughter, move to Nigeria now. I want to use you all over the world.” When I told my husband and children that I had a personal relationship and fellowship with Jesus Christ, they were shocked and supported me. I practically closed down the airport with about 4,000 members of Cherubim and Seraphim and Celestial Church of Christ the first day I got to Nigeria. Everything that has been happening now is an attestation that the Lord actually said I should move. I have been to over 48 cities around the world just in a year and eight months.  Despite being a successful minister of God, you have successfully managed your home, and made it a scandal-free marriage; what do you think most women should learn?  Humility comes before honour. A woman needs to exhibit humility as a wife. Ego is in every male—black or white. Grace has gotten me this far, but humility also takes you far in ministry as a woman. Whenever I am ministering and my husband is present, I would kneel down and greet him first. Who doesn’t love honour? That I am a woman of God doesn’t stop the scripture in Ephesians chapter 5 which admonishes women to submit to their husbands. It doesn’t stop you from cooking. It doesn’t change my name as Esther. It doesn’t change me as the Esther the world sees. As long as it gives me peace in my marriage, why won’t I do it? I understand the fact that some women have terrible husbands but, you cannot use darkness to chase out darkness. Remain humble and God will intervene.  When did you get married?  We got married in 1984 but we visited the Ikoyi Registry in 1989. Lastly, do you still cook his meal?  Of course, cooking gives me joy. If I am not on ministerial duties, I cook for my husband. He is the head, I treat him as such.