Worried by the Federal Government’s plan to borrow a fresh $30 billion, despite the nation’s over $84 billion debt profile, experts say that Nigeria won’t get another debt cancellation if she defaults in servicing the debts. PAUL OGBUOKIRI reports   •Debt profile set to hit $114bn •Nigeria loses over N1.5trn yearly to FX, oil subsidies •Chinese loans not Paris Club arrangement compliant, says IMF   I f the Senate approves the $29.9 billion borrowing plan presented to it recently by President Muhammadu Buhari and the nation goes ahead to borrow that much, Nigeria’s debt profile will hit a historic mark of $114billion. This is about 300 per cent more that Nigeria’s $30 billion debt which the Minister of Finance at that time, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala’s extra-ordinary efforts miraculously secured the Nigeria a debt forgiveness from the Paris Club of creditors to the tune of $18 billion in October 2005.   Some experts on the economy spoken to by the Sunday Telegraph said while the rising debt profile is alarming, more scary is what will befall the country if anything goes wrong in the servicing of the loans. Speaking, former president of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), Dr Samuel Nzekwe said though worked hard to qualify for the debt cancellation. “However the conditions which encouraged the Paris Club to grant Nigeria that debt exit is no longer there, moreover Nigeria has so much diversified her borrowings away from the Paris Club. That has its advantages and disadvantages, you can get a more favourable and cheaper loan outside the Paris Club, but when there are issues of refinancing or default you would not be able to get the Paris Club rule to apply,” he said.  Also speaking, Prof George Adaba of the Department of Economics University of Jos insisted that it will be difficult for Nigeria to negotiate for debt forgiveness again because the condition is no longer there, “moreover Nigeria did not make good use of the benefits of that extra-ordinary gesture of the Paris Club.”  “The government must be mindful of the conditions attached to the loans it is taking. Are there windows for renegotiations, refinancing and all that in case the country finds itself in a difficult situation that it needs some breathing space. We pray that Nigeria is able to service the debts and that brings us to committing the loans to productive aspect of the economy,” he said. Paris Club debt forgiveness of 2005  According to an International Monetary Fund factsheet, the idea of debt forgiveness, which was tagged the Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC Initiative), was a collaboration between the IMF, the International Development Association (IDA) of the World Bank, and the African Development Fund (AfDF), to cancel 100 per cent of the debt claims of “countries that had reached, or would eventually reach, the completion point—the stage at which a country becomes eligible for full and irrevocable debt relief”.   The countries that benefitted were 38 in all, and they were as follows: Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Togo , Uganda, Benin, Bolivia, Cameroon, Comoros, Republic of Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Senegal, Zambia.   Also, Cambodia, Tajikistan, benefitted from the initiative even though they were non-HIPC countries, but they had a per capita income below $380 and outstanding debt to the IMF. The Group of Eight Industrialized Nations (G8) reached a decision to forgive indebted countries, but Nigeria was not one of them.   The G8 debt cancellation did require some efforts on the part of benefitting countries. The IMF stated that there were requirements to be met before countries could have their debts forgiven them. According to the IMF factsheet: “To qualify for debt relief, the IMF Executive Board also required that those countries be current on their obligations to the IMF and demonstrate satisfactory performance in macroeconomic policies, implementation of a poverty reduction strategy, and public expenditure management. Nigeria was not qualified.   However, negotiations continued after Nigeria missing out of the HIPC initiative. These negotiations culminated in the Paris Club writing off $18 billion or 60 per cent of the total $30 billion being owed it by Nigeria in October 2005. The group, at the time, also promised to raise the amount of the debt to be cancelled to $20 billion or 67 per cent.  Among other explanations that led to the partial debt cancellation, the Paris Club said the gesture was in recognition, as well as part of its contribution to Nigeria’s efforts at economic development, adding that “It would also help Nigeria in its fight against poverty”.  Chinese loans conditions more stringent than that of Paris Club  Obadiah Mailafia, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has warned that the country will get its ‘fingers burnt’ if it continues with borrowing from China.  Mailafia said this while explaining the danger involved in continuous huge borrowings from a particular country. According to him, Nigeria could suffer same travails as some African countries over their sizes of loans from China. While warning Nigeria to be cautious over the loans it has collected so far from China, it added that the country could end up losing critical national assets. While noting that China may have genuine interest in Africa’s development, Mailafia said there is a reason for Nigeria to be worried about loans from the country, especially as a result of the projects they are tied to.  He also lamented that after collecting loans from China, labour is imported from there while maintenance of such projects and spare parts are also brought from the country.  This came as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has warned Nigeria and other emerging market countries taking excessive loans from China to consider the terms of such facilities, especially, their compliance with the Paris Club arrangements.   Speaking at the IMF/World Bank Spring Meetings in United States of America, Director, IMF Monetary and Capital Markets Department, Tobias Andrian, said there was nothing bad in borrowing from China, except that the terms of such loans are always questionable.   He said: “Loans from China are good, but the countries should consider the terms of the loans. And we urge countries that when they borrow from abroad, the terms are favorable for the borrower, and should be conforming to the Paris Club arrangements.” Andrian, who spoke on the Global Financial Stability Report (GFSR), said: “Let me reiterate that in many frontier markets, we see that the share of debt that is not conforming to the Paris Club standards is on the rise. And that means that if there is any debt restructuring down the road one day that can be very unfavorable to those countries. So, the borrowing terms, the covenants, are extremely important. And we do see deterioration in that aspect.”   Meanwhile, the Debt Management Office (DMO) said that as at June 2018, loans obtained by the Federal Government from China represented about 8.5 per cent of Nigeria’s external debt and that there taken under concessionary terms. But Nigeria was last year seeking $6 billion from China to fund the construction of the Ibadan-Kano rail line project.  Andrian said Nigeria has been borrowing from international markets, which gives the IMF some worries, saying however that such loans are good as it allows the country to invest more, but expressed concerns over rollover or repayment risks going forward.   “At the moment, funding conditions in economies such as Nigeria and other Sub-Saharan African countries are very favourable but that might change at some point. And there is risk of rollovers and whether these need for refinancing can be met in the future,” he stated.   Why NASS should not approve the $29.9billion roan request According to the National chairman of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Falalu Bello, the country’s debt profile skyrocketed from $10billion in 2015 to $84billion now. Bello, who was at different times the Managing Director of Unity, Habib and Intercity banks, while speaking during a media dialogue in Abuja, urged the National Assembly not to approve the $29.9billion loan request of President Buhari before it.  Describing as unacceptable the rising debt profile of the country under Buhari, he said if the new request is approved, the country’s debt profile will rise to $114billion.  “When it came into office in 2015, the Buhari administration inherited a debt burden of just $10 billion, today our country’s debt exposure has spiralled up to about $84billion. Yet there is hardly anything on the ground to show for this staggering debt profile.  “This irresponsible profligacy must stop before our country and its present and future generations become indentured slaves. Already debt servicing is costing us almost half the budget with nothing left for development,” he said. Bello, while faulting the Federal Government’s claims that Nigeria’s debt to GDP ratio was low, said the justification was wrong, looking at the amount being used for debt servicing and the utilisation of previous loans. He said the ratio only favours developed countries and not a developing country like Nigeria.  However, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) says President Muhammadu Buhari’s $29.9 billion external borrowing request to National Assembly for approval was in the interest of the country.  In a statement signed by its Chairman Niyi Akinsiju in Abuja recently, BMO said the funds were necessary in order for the country to bridge the infrastructure gaps that were left unattended to by previous administrations in the country. Akinsiju said if the requests had been fully granted in 2016, Nigerians would have seen more projects at various stages of completion across the country.  “Buhari has made a bold move by sending back the 2016-2018 external borrowing plan to the National Assembly for reconsideration,” he said.  Concerns keep rising over Nigeria’s debt profile   The issue of Nigeria’s rising debt profile has always generated concerns from across the nation’s economic and political spectrum. For instance, recently, some senators raised formal protest on the floor of the Chambers over the rising debt profile as contained in the 2019 Appropriation Bill. Early this month, the DMO said Nigeria’s total debt as at December 31, 2018 stood at N24.39 trillion ($79.437 billion) which represents a year-on-year growth of 12.25 per cent.  A member of the House of Representatives, Tajudeen Yusuf, who also brought the issue of Nigeria’s debt profile up for discussion at a plenary session recently, noted that the House was concerned that aside from the rising national debt profile, there was a sharp increase in sub-national borrowing in the last three years, such that the domestic debts of state governments rose from N1.69 trillion in June 2015 to N3.4 trillion in June 2018.  Also, during the launch of the Global Financial Stability Report for April, 2019 at the IMF/World Bank Spring meetings in Washington D.C, U.S, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) cautioned Nigeria and other developing countries on borrowing. The Financial Counsellor and Director of the IMF’s Monetary and Capital Markets Department, Mr. Tobias Adrian, who disclosed this, also said on Nigeria’s rising debt levels, funding conditions are very favourable but that may change at some point.  Similarly, financial experts have advised the federal government to check the rising external debt profile of the country. A former president of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), Dr Samuel Nzekwe, said it would be difficult to finance capital and recurrent expenditures when using more than a quarter of revenue generated to service debt. He urged the government to be cautious in accumulating more debts as this has the ability to erode investors’ confidence.  Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) had cause to express its concerns on the issue. It pointed out that borrowing could have been permissive given the state of the economy in 2015, but not to the high level it had turned out to be. It further said that incurring debt for purposes of development was not in question, but that the over N24.39trillion debt stocks taking over 70 per cent of annual national budget to service debt should be enough source of worry. It, therefore, urged the government to manage the rising debt profile, both at the states and federal levels, as this trend portend a gloomy future for the nation.  Out of the N8.9 trillion proposed national budget before the National Assembly, over N2.3 trillion has been set aside for debt servicing, a development economists said was unhealthy for national development and economic growth. Nigeria loses over N1.5trillion to foreign exchange, oil subsidies  Meanwhile, Falalu Bello has tasked the Federal Government to stop the foreign exchange (FX) subsidy, saying it benefits only a very few privileged individuals at the expense of the masses.  “Multiple Exchange Rates of N305 to a dollar for government business; N345 to a dollar for the Interbank Market; and N345 to a dollar at the Import and Export window benefit only a few and deprives the federal, states and local governments of much needed revenue. “The President should order the merger of these rates to increase revenues to the three tiers of government and eliminate the arbitrage benefiting only the corrupt in the system,” he said. The PRP national chairman also said that the president has failed to fulfil his campaign promise to stop the fraud being perpetrated under the payment of fuel subsidy. “Stop the fraud in the Fuel Subsidy regime which the APC government and President Muhammadu Buhari had promised to stop during their electioneering campaigns. “Mr. President Sir, the petroleum subsidy fraud you have identified and promised to stop is continuing and has even become bigger and need be brought to an end,” he said. According to him, in so far as the Federal Government continues to was its meager revenue on the subsidy of FX for the privileged Nigerians and Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), it always be difficult for the Federal Government to have funds to finance capital projects. Nigeria not in debt crisis  Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company and a member of the President Buhari’s Economic Advisory Council, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, who also spoke at the forum, said: “We don’t have a debt crisis, we have a revenue problem but there are also other problems such as poverty, productivity. So, it is not if we have a debt or revenue problem. Also, what we use our revenue for is also important.  “So the government expenditure and the government investment multiplier are much lower than the private sector multiplier and the difference between the flow of wealth and the stock of wealth is a different story.”  This came as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said Nigeria’s debt-to-Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio, which currently stands at 28 per cent, is still below the average in Africa, despite the fact that the country’s debt level has risen. It also reiterated that revenue-to-GDP ratio in the country remains low and urged the Federal Government to increase its drive to create more jobs and enhance fiscal consolidation.  IMF Senior Resident Representative and Mission Chief for Nigeria, Mr. Amine Mati, said this recently in Lagos at the public presentation of the ‘Fall 2019,’ a Regional Economic Outlook for Sub-Saharan Africa. The Debt Management Office had recently revealed that out of Nigeria’s total debt profile of N25.7 trillion as of June 2019, external borrowing accounted for about 32 per cent while 68 per cent was from domestic borrowing. But Mati noted that even though Nigeria’s debt has increased, the level was way below the average for the region.  “Even if we include the Central Bank of Nigeria’s overdraft and others, we are talking about a debt-to-GDP ratio that doesn’t go beyond 27 or 28 per cent to GDP, and that is including AMCON overdraft, etc,” he explained.  Commenting on the need for fiscal consolidation, he said: “For resource intensive countries and the non-resource intensive countries, one thing that is common is that when there is trade shock, they react. So, you lose revenue and debts go up. In most countries, you would see debt is about 50 per cent to GDP and has increased since 2016 in all cases.  “But what is new is that most of the countries are back on a sustainable path and most countries have plans to reduce debt through fiscal consolidation and have seemed to have stabilised.  “The three largest countries that are driving Sub Saharan growth are Angola, South Africa and Nigeria. Angola has a negative growth; South Africa has a growth below one per cent and Nigeria growing between 2 and 2.5 per cent, which is still on the negative per capita growth. “Nigeria in the first three quarters, the numbers that came out was at 2.2 per cent and our forecast of 2.3 per cent for the year is still on track depending on how agriculture, ICT perform. “Nigeria is still on 2.3 per cent for 2019, but for 2020 we project a growth of 2.5 per cent. So, it is still not growing as fast as others for a variety of reasons, including some of the structural reforms and others but it is picking up.” Last line Most experts spoken by this newspaper, believe that it will be very dangerous for Nigeria to find herself in the dangerous situation it was before the Paris Club debt exit of 2005. They want government to block loopholes and ensure that all loans go to the productive sectors of the economy.