Following the recent resignation of the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, Hon. Damishi Sango, as result of alleged misappropriation of funds, a succession crisis is brewing over the disregard for the party’s constitution, writes MUSA PAM  The crisis in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Plateau State started in April 2019 when 16 members of the State Working Committee of the party suspended the then Chairman, Hon. Damishi Sango and Deputy Chairman Hon. Amos Gombi Goyol, over an alleged diversion of 2019 election campaign funds and some money contributed meant for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs).  The 16 members of the State Working Committee of the party had in a petition written to the National Secretariat Abuja accused Hon. Sango and Goyol that the resources sent to the state for the presidential elections were not accounted for by the duo.  The SEC members also alleged that the diversion of the campaign funds was a deliberate act by the former chairman and his deputy which led to the failure of the party.  However, since the crisis started instead of the party to worked together to defend their claims to the governorship election at the election tribunal, the party was divided which made them to lose at the tribunal, Appeal Court and now waiting for the Supreme Court judgment. Already the party has been split into two camps – one camp in support of Hon. Sango and Gombi, the governorship candidate Gen. Jeremiah Useni, former Speaker Rt. Hon. Emmanuel Goyol and Former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu on the one hand.  The second camp has the founding member of the party and Board of Trustee member of PDP and Former Governor of Plateau Senator Jonah Jang, serving and former members of both National and State Assembly, 16 members of the State Working Committee and former local government chairmen. Others include the LG party chairmen and former commissioners.  It would be recalled that the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) having received the petition against the party chairman immediately mandated a committee headed by former Senate President, Senator David Mark, to investigate and resolve the crisis in the state.  After another three months of investigations and reconciliation attempts by the David Mark committee, it was learnt that the committee found that the allegations against Sango were not true and therefore recommended that Sango be reinstated to his office as the chairman of the party.  But, investigation revealed that the National Working Committee of the party agreed with the consent of all the parties to the conflict that Sango be cleared of the allegations but that he has to resign and handover to his deputy.  It was also resolved that after his resignation, Sango will become a member of the Board of Trustees (BOT) of the party at the national level, while his deputy will remain as acting chairman while directive was given to all the party stakeholders to go back and follow party constitution. While returning from Abuja, Hon. Sango complied with the agreement and resigned and handed over to his deputy to be in the acting capacity, a development many viewed was the end of the PDP crisis in the state.  But, a chieftain of the PDP in the state, Hon. Idi Waziri said the party’s National Working Committee got it wrong on its resolution of the leadership crisis. Waziri, a former commissioner, queried how the Uche Secondus-led NWC arrived at the decision that the 16 members of the Plateau State PDP Executive Committee, who signed a petition against Sango, should withdraw the petition and apologise on a claim that the petition was a “mere allegation. At the same time, he asked Sango to tender his letter of resignation as the state party chairman within one week.  Waziri also faulted the PDP NWC on its decision directing party members to recognise the PDP governorship candidate in the 2019 elections, Senator Jeremiah Useni, as the leader of the party in the state. The ex-commissioner, who spoke with Sunday Telegraph in Jos, accused the NWC of insincerity in resolving the party’s leadership crisis in Plateau State.  He said: “Some of us were waiting for the national leadership of our party to resolve the state leadership crisis. “With the Supreme Court’s judgement on the resolution of the party leadership, one thought that Hon.  Sango ought to have tendered an unreserved apology to the entire genuine Wase PDP supporters, particularly Alhaji Hamisu Anani, who won the party primaries and spent his resources to fight the prolonged battle for justice in court.   However, the PDP Plateau North which is the stronghold of the party has rejected the decision of the NWC for the allowing Hon. Gombi to continue as the Acting State Chairman of the party, describing it as unacceptable and against provisions of the party constitution. Meanwhile, the State Working Committee of the party on Monday ratified the nomination of the representative of Northern Senatorial Zone to replace Hon. Sango who had resigned.  The Vice Chairman of the PDP the Northern senatorial zone, Hon. Chris Hassan who is from the same zone with Sango on Monday during the SEC meeting emerged the chairman of the party in the state to replaced Hon. Sango.  The emergence of Hon. Hassan followed the ratification by the State Executive Committee of the party at  the party secretariat in Jos, endorsing his nomination of representative of the Plateau North Senatorial Zone of the party in line with Section 47 (6) of the PDP constitution as amended in 2017. Speaking on behalf of the zone, the senator Representing Plateau North Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Barr. Istifanus Dung Gyang accompanied by other National Assembly members of the party told newsmen after the SEC ratification said the Constitution of the party has laid down clearly steps to be taken for the replacement of the party chairman after resigning from office.  “The Section 47 (6) of the PDP Constitution as amended 2017 stated that: “Where a vacancy occurs in any of the offices of the party, the Executive Committee at the appropriate level shall appoint another person from the area or zone where the officer originated from the serve out the tenure of the officer”.  Senator Gyang said the position of the state chairman of the party was zoned to Plateau North and since the former chairman, Sango resigned, Section 47 (6) of the PDP constitution stipulates that Plateau North was expected to fill in a candidate for the chairmanship position and not Plateau Central where Amos Gombi comes from.  He said the northern one in compliance with the party constitution Section 47(6) camp up with the resolution of nominating Hon. Hassan and the nomination was forwarded to the SEC to ratify or reject, but the SEC has ratified the nomination and will forward it resolution to the National Working Committee of the party.  According to him the decision of the SEC was in respect of the directive of the NWC to comply with the Constitution of the Party. Former governor of the state and member PDP BoT, Sen. Jang who also endorsed the action of the SEC for the ratification said the action was based on the constitution of the PDP.  “As you are aware, we have been having some little family problems in the PDP that led to the resignation of the state chairman, and when a chairman resigns, the deputy chairman automatically becomes the acting chairman. “But the constitution of our party says any member who resigns, the area that brought him will nominate someone to replace him, whatever is his position. We started this process last week by the northern zone where the former chairman comes from and there was a nomination for the replacement.  “A letter was written by the Executive Council of the Plateau North to the State Executive Council (SEC) to inform them that someone had been nominated for the replacement of the former chairman who resigned and the SEC members met on Monday and ratified the nomination of Chris Hassan as chairman of the party.” Jang said he has being informed as one of the founding fathers of the party in the country; and that the State Executive Council had gone to the National Secretariat Abuja to submit the name of Chris Hassan as the state chairman of the party.  The new Chairman of the Party, Hon. Chris Hassan said he would complete the tenure of the northern zone and ensure that there is unity of purpose in the party ahead of the state congress where new officials will emerge. In a swift reaction on the nomination of the substantive chairman, the embattle Acting Chairman Hon. Amos Gombi described the action as a coup that would not hold.   “You can’t put something on nothing. I received a letter of my appointment as acting chairman last Friday from the National Secretariat, and if there is anything replacement, they should have allowed me to convene a meeting first and then table it. “The letter is clear that I will be there to conduct congresses and then go. They have forgotten that this was an agreement before Sango resigned; it will not hold,” he said.  It was learned that Gombi was out of town when the action was taken where they accused him of refusing to call for a SEC meeting last week. Sango, when contacted said he was not aware of emergence of any new chairman, saying he was surprised of the jokes he heard on the media. “I know that Hon. Amos Gombi is the Acting Chairman of PDP in Plateau State whom I handed over to. So I am not aware of any new Chairman.  When did they conduct Congresses? I am surprised by this joke. I think some persons are bent on destroying the party,” he said. Sang added that he handed over the party leadership to Hon. Gombi, his Deputy on acting capacity to conduct congress and that was done in the presence of the governorship candidate, Sen. Jeremiah Useni who is the leader of the party in the state.  Sunday Telegraph’s findings revealed that members of the party from Plateau North were not particularly pleased with the pattern of resolution adopted by Sen. Mark committee. The zone argued that Sango, who hails from northern zone handed over power to his Deputy, Gombi, to hold forth pending when party stakeholders from the zone will elect and present to SEC a replacement that will complete the tenure of Sango/ Plateau North Senatorial Zone in line with Section 47(6) of the PDP Constitution as amended in 2017.  According to one of the stakeholders of the party and former ALGON Chairman in the state, Dr. Emmanuel Loman, the zone is the pillar of the PDP in the state and from the 2019 election, it was clear that the zone remains the stronghold of the party and cannot be deprived of its chairmanship slot. “We are the only zone in the state that produced a PDP Senator and two members of House of Representatives, five House of Assembly members.  So we own and sustain the party at the moment; this new arrangement is unacceptable to us. We shall find a replacement for Sango very soon.  “We are also aware that there is an existing zoning arraignment in the party prior to the last State Congress that Plateau North Senatorial Zone will produce the State Party Chairman which saw the emergence of Hon DT Sango and the Southern Senatorial Zone to produce the 2019 governorship candidate of the party which also saw the emergence of Lt. Gen. Jeremiah Useni, setting in motion a smooth zoning arraignment that will come to an end in the next few months”.