●Sowore’s travail signals distressed democracy, says group  Worried by the present state of the nation, leaders of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) have urged Nigerians to intensify efforts in the fight against oppression. Speaking at the weekend the organisation visit to late Beko Ransome Kuti’s Anthony Village residence in Lagos to condole with the family over the demise of Abosede, wife of the late human rights activist, NADECO Secretary, Mr. Ayo Opadokun, appealed to the younger generation to take their destinies into their hands. His words: “Your oppressors would never handover your liberty to you, and you must be determined to take it from them, every day of your life. “Any day you fail to fight for your right, you are wasting your time. Don’t think that the oppressors would hand it over to you. They are happy that you are wasting your time, and they would keep on doing the careless things that they are doing.” NADECO chairman, Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu (rtd), said: “What he (Beko Ransome-Kuti) struggled for and many others like him, are not something just for material benefit or temporary. We will not cease to remind people, there is no way, that you can be happy in any portion of this space and others are not happy, and there is no way you can disregard the happiness of others and be happy; it is not possible. “When people say break up, whether you like it or not, God created geography, no matter the different nationalities, even if you end up in different regions, all of us must meet in the space called Nigeria to be happy and for things to work well.” Also speaking, a NADECO chieftain, Dr. Amos Akingba, who described the country as a society that is in retrogressive evolution, whether in education, values, religion or legislature, urged the youths to double their efforts in the fight against oppression, stressing that Nigeria had continued to go backwards. Meanwhile, a civil society group, the Centre for Truth and Liberty (CTL) has condemned the invasion of Abuja Federal High Court by officials of the Department of State Security (DSS) in the latest attempt to undermine the judiciary in Nigeria. The group in a statement signed by its Executive Director, Olusesan Samaye, called on the international community to urgently intervene to safeguard democracy in Nigeria by calling Nigerian government to order. The statement reads in part: “The refusal by the DSS to release leaders of the #RevolutionaNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore and Olawale Bakare in spite of valid bail granted by a competent court of jurisdiction violates sanctity of the rule of law and impugns on the principle of separation of power which is vital for the growth of democracy. “It is indeed regrettable that much of the gains recorded through painstaking commitment to popular and unfettered citizens’ engagements in the last 20 years of civil rule are being eroded with unrestrained impunity. There is no doubt that democracy is in distress in Nigeria owing to prevailing suffocating climate of intolerance orchestrated by the government. Therefore, proposed social media and hate speech bills would definitely worsen the situation as security outfit like the DSS will become more emboldened in violating human rights and in continuation of the impunity and contempt for the judiciary and rule of law. “CTL therefore calls on the international community to urgently intervene to safeguard democracy in Nigeria. CTL calls on the United Nations (UN), United States (US), United Kingdom (UK) and Canada to call Nigerian government to order.”