P resident Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to frustrate desperate politicians who intend to use their offices and resources to win elections in 2023 general election.  The President, who stated this yesterday to mark his 77th birthday anniversary, decried that democratic process was slowing down his government.  Speaking on preparations of his government to engender an improved electoral process in 2023, Buhari warned that nobody will use his resources or office to rig the 2023 elections.  He vowed that he will use law enforcement agencies to ensure that the elections are free, fair and credible.  Buhari said: “What I want to promise Nigerians is that I will work very hard on free and fair election.  “All those that are going to succeed in the National Assembly and the Presidency, they better work very hard because I will make sure, using the law enforcement agencies, that elections are free and fair, nobody uses his office or his resources to force himself on his constituency.”  He explained that he has had learnt in a hard way because the democratic process was too slow to his liking in dealing with issues of corruption.  He said: “I think I have come to accept the realities of leadership in Nigeria, you can only try; it is a terrific country. No matter what you do, there are people on daily basis that look for your faults and go to the press. So, you have to learn to live by that.”   The President said that he had every reason to feel good and thank God at 77, stressing that a lot of those that were 77 years are on crutches and “I am walking on my two feet.”   Asked what his birthday gift to Nigerians was, he said: “Patience and patriotism, that is what we see as a rule. Nobody can have his own way, we better accept the truth that we are one Nigeria, and we keep on building. God has blessed us with land and people and resources. We must have the patience to exploit them and leave something for our future generations.”  On his message to corrupt elements in Nigeria and economic saboteurs, he said: “Well, like I said, I have learnt in the hard way. When I came in uniform, I arrested those who were leading, took them to Kirikiri and told them they were guilty until they could prove themselves innocent.   “I put up, based on almost all the geopolitical zones, committees (Military Tribunals) to investigate them. Those that were found to have lived beyond their means, the balance were taken and were given to the states. But I myself was arrested, detained.  “So, under this system which is supposed to be more accountable, but it is too slow for my liking, but I have to follow it.”  The birthday ceremony, which held at his official residence, witnessed presentation of a card and the cutting of cake. It was attended by senior government officials.   Meanwhile, the First Lady, Aisha, has congratulated her husband on the occasion of his 77th birthday, describing him as incorruptible.   The President’s wife, in a birthday message on her twitter handle @aishambuhari, referred to President Buhari as GMB.  She wrote: “Happy Birthday to MY incorruptible GMB. I wish you Allah’s guidance protection and good health to continue steering the affairs of our dear nation.   “Long Live GMB. “Long Live Federal Republic of Nigeria!”  