Though being one of the most popular churches in Akure, the Ondo State capital and its environs, within the space of six weeks, Sotitobire Miracle Centre became famous across the country. This time not for the miraculous wonders the church symbolizes. Adewale Momoh writes on the fate that befell the church since the mysterious disappearance of one-year-old Gold  Kolawole on November 10, 2019  Before November 10, 2019, the day baby Gold Enilaloluwa Kolawole went missing at Sotitobire Miracle Centre, the Church situated at Oshinle Quarters in the heart of Akure, Ondo State capital, South West, Nigeria used to be bubbling with a beehive of activities. The church which has members from across the state as well as outside the state coming as far as from the South- South and South East states for miracles and instant healing had before the November 10 incident been greeted with questions over its mode of worship and its programmes. The founder of the church, Prophet Alfa Babatunde who is still in the custody of the Department of State Security (DSS) over the disappearance of Gold from his church is known among those who reside within the vicinity of the church for prolonged service as the church closes the weekly Sunday Service at 6 pm after commencing programme at 7 am. With complaints from residents of the disturbance of their weekends by the church, they also emphasized that the programmes tagged with different titles were being held on a daily basis at the church. According to sources, the church which is the preferred destination for internet fraudsters otherwise known as ‘yahoo boys’ across the state has programmes put in place for them where they always receive prayers and blessings from the Prophet. One of the sources who preferred anonymity who was a former member of the church also stated Prophet Alfa used to have programme of sex workers popularly known as ‘olosho’. But the source emphasized that what he does was invite them to his church as he will empower them financially with an admonition for them to desist from such trade. Also, the church members must buy sachet water (pure water) from the church authority at the rate of N100 as against the market price of N10 which will be blessed by Prophet Alfa to solve all physical and spiritual problems of miracle seekers. With the church sitting on almost the full length of the street at Oshinle, trouble stated for Prophet Alfa when he was picked up by the DSS, a month after Gold had been missing. The Sotitobire’s ordeal was further compounded when 10 workers and members of the church were also whisked away by the Nigerian secret police over the development. A source at the DSS office disclosed that during the course of investigation, the house and the church of Prophet Alfa were searched when they took him to the properties. According to one of the operatives, during the search, over 300 international passports were found inside one of the rooms with some of them having visas already stamped on them. The operatives added that when the Prophet was asked what was that amount of passports were doing in his possession since his church is not an embassy, he was said to have responded that they belong to those seeking greener pastures. That they want him to bless them before going for their interviews at the various embassy of countries they which to travel to while those with visas already stamped on their seeks seamless entry and juicy job opportunities in the country they are travelling to. However, the scenario witnessed a new twist on Wednesday, November 18, 2019, that the investigation of the DSS has led to the discovery of the corpse of the missing child. According to the rumours that filtered into town, the missing child body was exhumed from where it was buried on the church’s altar as they alleged Prophet Alfa of using him for rituals. With no evidence that the corpse of a baby was exhumed, the angry youths who had mobilized to the church subsequently attacked everyone in the church before setting the church ablaze. Vehicles belonging to the church as well as the operational vehicle of the police and other properties within the location of the church were also burnt down by the angry youths. With three confirmed dead, journalists who had come to report the incident were not spared as they were seriously beaten and injured. The journalists who were caught up in the fracas, however, accused the police of masterminding the attack on them as they never made any effort to rescue them during the melee. Meanwhile, Police Command in the State has confirmed the arrest of 10 persons for setting Ondo church ablaze. According to the Ondo State Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie stated that more arrests will still be made as regards the incident. He said “Investigation is ongoing and I can assure you that any person linked with the incident won’t be spared. “We were able to arrest 10 persons and they are in our custody. “We also intercepted a vehicle carrying some of the properties looted from the pastor’s house. “The police were able to protect the pastor’s house from been set ablaze but some of his properties were looted and some of his cars were damaged but the cars have been moved to state CID”. Undie also confirmed the death of a Sergeant Police Officer and two civilians noting that another Police was critically injured. The Commissioner appealed to residents of Akure to be law-abiding citizens and detach themselves from any unlawful act capable of putting them in trouble. However, there have been allegations of interference in the ongoing investigation of the missing child by some influential individuals over the case in order for Prophet Alfa to be released from custody. Among those alleged to be involved in the scheme for the Prophet to the release is the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo who was said to have contacted top politicians as well as Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The governor was said to have told the first-class monarch to let the DSS do their job as he would be involved in such. Meanwhile, Oba Aladetoyinbo has denied claims that he was trying to obstruct investigation as he stated that he never collected money from Prophet Alfa. Oba Aladetoyinbo in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Adeyeye Michael stated that “The attention of the Palace has been drawn to the ugly incident of Wednesday, 18th December 2019 in Akure which resulted in arson and alleged killing of three Persons. “The mob action, according to reports, was precipitated by a false news story to the effect that the remains of a one-year-old boy alleged to have been kidnapped in the premises of Sotitobire has been exhumed from the Church. “Ordinarily, the Palace would have refrained from commenting about the incident and allow law enforcement agents to do their job, but for the rumour that trailed the mob action which has necessitated this statement to clear the air on allegation of complicity by the Palace in this unfortunate incident. “It is on record that the parents of the missing child had protested to the Deji’s Palace on Tuesday 12th November 2019 seeking the intervention of the Monarch. “Undoubtedly, the Deji quickly intervened and constantly followed up on the case to ensure that justice is served by inviting the General Overseer of the Church, the Parents of the Child and the teachers at the children section. The Deji equally urge the security agencies to carry out a thorough and discreet investigation in order to unravel the mystery surrounding the disappearance of the child and bring perpetrators to book. “It is therefore unreasonable, illogical and a total falsehood to allege the Monarch of Complicity and attempt to pervert the course of justice. This is a blatant lie from the pit of hell and an attempt to denigrate the revered stool of the Deji. “It is laughable and barbaric that some faceless individuals also claim that His Majesty received a huge sum of money to push for the release of the cleric and also compromise the investigators. This remains a figment of the imagination of whoever is behind the rumor. We challenge anyone with such evidence to provide it. “We deeply frown at any attempt to bring the revered institution into disrepute by these rumor mongers for any reason. We urge the good people of Akure kingdom and the general public to disregard such satanic rumor from these faceless and wicked individuals. “The Kabiyesi will not in any way be part of any attempt to prevent the law from taking its due course. As a man who believes in justice and equity, he will not be involved in any shady dealings under any guise. It is, therefore, wrong for anyone to drag the Deji into such matter which is criminal in nature with the intent of disrupting investigation. This is malicious with no iota of truth. “His Majesty is ever ready to support any move that will help to find the missing child, unravel the mystery and bring any person or group of person involved to book. “The Palace wishes to enjoin the Security agencies to expedite action on their investigation in the search of the child, as our confidence is unshaken in their ability to do justice without fear or favour. “We urge our people to refrain from making unsubstantiated allegations that could jeopardize the ongoing Investigation but only lead to unnecessary incitement. “We are confident that evil cannot triumph over good and our heartfelt sympathy and prayer are with the family of the missing child.”