The need to curb the menace of cultism among youths was the thrust of a one-day seminar organised by the YouthsLens Movement of Nigeria (YLMN) and its partners. GODSTIME SIMON reports   According to census projections, half of Nigeria’s population will be under 25- years-old by 2030 and those under this age bracket are youths. Currently, about 30 per cent of the country’s populations are youths.  Among vices attributed to youths, cultism has been the most pronounced and unfortunately, it has unleashed its weight through irreparable loss and pain to many families and society at large. Before now, the existence of cult groups was predominant in higher institutions with as much as over 50 cult groups in subsistence. However, the trend has dangerously changed now as there is the existence of cult groups in secondary and primary schools. They are also in neighbourhoods’ of different communities. Curiously, membership of the cult groups has no gender specification as status and sex are no longer major considerations. Currently, there are female-specific cult groups and they promote the ‘interest’ of their members. For all, the hydra-headed monster called cultism, is in geometric progression in the society, especially among the teeming youths, and they, more often than not, waste their lives, get rusticated or expelled, and have their bright future truncated. To avert these grave consequences involvement in cultism portend, a non-governmental organization, YouthsLens Movement of Nigeria (YLMN) in conjunction with the Lagos State Police Command and the United Bank for Africa (UBA) recently organised a programme aimed at enlightening youths on crime and cultism. The seminar, which was organised by Juliana Francis, Crime Editor of the New Telegraph under the umbrella of YLMN, had in attendance secondary students from Fly High Secondary School, Ketu Mile 12 and Covet the Redeemer Secondary School, Akesan, Lasu/Isheri. Other schools in attendance are Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Abia State University, Yaba College of Education, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), Lagos State University, Ojo (LASU), amongst others. The seminar was supported by Lagos State Police Command, United Bank African (UBA) and Nigerian Bottling Company. The Sango-Ota Area Commander, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Mr Monday Agbonika, stated that cultism and cultists continue to thrive in higher institution campuses because policemen are never allowed to enter campuses. Speaking on the theme of the seminar, ‘The Nigerian Youth and Cultism Today’, the Sango-Ota Area Commander of the Nigerian Police, Mr Monday Agbonika, who is an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), said cultism and cultists continue to thrive in higher institution campuses because policemen are never allowed to enter campuses. Agbonika, who was the keynote speaker at the seminar which held at the Police Officers’ Mess, GRA Ikeja, said cultists use different tricks to initiate young people and that cultists always have ways of identifying themselves, especially through their dresses, hairstyles and sign languages. His words: “One of the reasons cultism continues to thrive in campuses is because policemen are not allowed to enter university for operation, except they are called. We commend the convener of the seminar, Mrs. Juliana Francis. This is the only way to catch them young and check cultism. We must talk about parents. Parents should do their best. In Lagos Island, it is difficult to separate cultists from area boys.  There is a connection between crime and people living where crime is being perpetrated.” Enumerating how youths could be initiated, the ACP mentioned peer pressure. He noted others to include, “revenge over issues can cause youths to join, and emotional instability, family and political thuggery are ways a young person can get involved in cultism.” According to Agbonika, cultism could affect a youth’s academic performance, causes him or her to drop out of school, make them take to robbery, prostitution and other vices. He urged parents to play important roles in the lives of their children and ensure they prevent them from joining bad gangs. On his part, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), a Deputy Superintendent of Police Bala Elkana, who was one of the panelists at the seminar, stated that cultism was a serious issue in the Nigerian society. He stressed that the fact that many young Nigerians were involved in it, makes it a serious issue of concern. His words: “Parents should live an exemplary life for their kids to emulate. Whatever the kids wish to become in life can only be by themselves. The most painful thing to me as PPRO is to parade young persons, who are supposed to be leaders of tomorrow as cultists or criminal. It is not about taking cultists to court, but addressing the root causes of cultism and what is attracting young people into it.” A former Prison Chaplain, who is also an activist, Pastor Darlington Ajitemisan said: “Crime doesn’t pay! I have been into crime since I was very young and selling drugs on the streets of Lagos. I cannot talk about prison without talking about what took me to prison. I was trained as an assassin, a professional killer. I was a small boy in prison and I was doing all these things because of how I grew up and how I used to see my parents fight.” He continued: “There are all kinds of things going on in the prison and these are reasons youths should avoid it. There is homosexuality and lesbianism. If you think you can go to prison and come out to be a better person, you are lying! The prison will change your thinking, no matter your religion. I have served in four different prisons in the world. I have also been to Kirikiri Prison. I have also been to all different police stations. Whoever enters prison, will come out as a hardened criminal and other crime you don’t think you will find yourself in.” Ajitemisan noted that crimes such as robbery, assassination and other violent crimes were often organised in prison. He said: “Prison is supposed to be for reformation and a correctional center, but it’s not. Nigerian Prisons need proper funding to make it a real correctional center.” The convener of the programme, Francis, said the number of young people in cultism gave birth to the idea of the programme. “The idea behind the programme is for the young ones that had been taught about the danger of cultism to forward the same message to their friends and relatives. They have no reason to join any crime, even when there is no food at home and they don’t have parents.” She further noted: “No reason is acceptable for any young person to join cultism or crime. Youths should know that there are consequences for the choices we make, and in life, we must always meet and confront challenges. Youths should look for excuses to take to crime. Excuses likes my parents are poor, parents are dead, my friend asked me to join, among others. Any negative action they are involved will affect their family members and their future. They should know there is no competition in life.” Mrs Evelyn Usman, Assistant Crime Editor, Vanguard Newspaper, who was also among the panelists, expressed worry over increasing influx of minors into cultism. She also expressed dismay that most parents didn’t know what their children were up to. She urged parents to pay attention to their children. On her part, a student of the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), Miss Joan Yakubu, shared experiences on how alongside her colleagues she organised programme to educate youths on the negative effects of crime, cultism, and drugs. Clearly, the involvement of youths in cultism is becoming alarming by the day, but the approach adopted by YLMN, to catch them young through enlightenment, is the way to go.