The Senate has rejected the free visa policy of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying it is premature, considering the spate of insecurity in the country. The senate also summoned the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola along with Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration to appear before its committee on Interior, Judiciary and legal matters. The invitation was to explain to the senate the legality, logistics and constitutional issues available and required for compliance, before the implementation of the visa-on-arrival policy. Buhari had recently announced the commencement of visas-on-arrival policy for all African travellers by January. This was a resolution adopted sequel to a motion sponsored by Sen. Adewunmi Adetunbi (APC, Ekiti North) at plenary on Tuesday. Leading his debate, Senator Adetunbi said that a national newspaper on December 12, 2019 had reported that the Federal Government had approved that all Africans could come into Nigeria without visa from January 2020. He said that neither the Federal Executive Council (FEC) nor member of the National Assembly had yet submitted a bill for domestication of the said African Continental Free Trade Agreement which is necessary prerequisite before its implementation. “Therefore, it is premature constitutionally and legally impossible for the provisions of the said agreement to have any effect within the territory of Nigeria,” he argued. Supporting the motion, Senate Minority Leader Eyinnaya Abaribe said that a lot of Nigerians were worried about the policy because of the spate of insecurity in the country. “And for us, haven known that part of the insecurity came from elements coming outside and into Nigeria to now have a visa policy that doesn’t seem to be properly regulated was giving a lot of people a lot jitters because, what it meant was that anybody could just come in and actually cause mayhem in Nigeria not knowing the result,” he observed. Abba Moro (PDP, Benue South) said that when international agreements were entered into by Nigeria, they should be properly domesticated to give it legality and legitimacy. The Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, said that the Attorney General of the Federation should be able to forward it to the National Assembly to file them appropriately and give them the legal backing that they required. Ahmad Lawan thereafter, threw the matter to vote and majority of Senators voted against the policy.