Abdullahi Awwal Muhammad is the Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Gwagwalada branch, Abuja. In this interview with Tunde Oyesina , he speaks on the disobedience of court orders, verdict of the Supreme Court on the Buhari/Atiku legal brawl, death sentence for hate speech and sundry issues  Do you share the states lawmakers’ view on financial autonomy?   Well, when you say financial autonomy, already we are having the three arms of government operating their separate budget, so I would not know what the clamouring is all about.  I just believe that since it is democracy and all the arms are independent of one another, I do not see any reason why certain arm will now be crying foul. More importantly, they know how to sponsor bills if something is not in their favor. As a matter of fact, instead of creating money for themselves they can as well strive to support bill that would help develop their states via more budgetary allocations.  The ‘death sentence’ for ‘hate speech’ being advocated had generated controversies. What is your take on it?  The proponent of that death sentence have realized their mistakes, and as I speak, they are already withdrawing from it.  Of course, everybody supports that there could be sanction and what have you; but then not to the level of bringing it firing squad into the narratives.  For me, lesser punishment will do and not go to the extent of death sentence.  New Wigs in the legal profession just got called to the Bar recently. Considering alleged poor results arising from previous examinations, should the government declare a state of emergency in legal education? No is my answer. I think what they ought to do in an ideal situation is to follow what a former Minister of Education in Nigeria proposed that before venturing into law, such candidates aspiring to study law, should first and foremost bagged another degree other than law.  In doing that, your performance in that First Degree will now qualified you to study Law. The thing is by the time they come to read law, they would have become experienced and ready for the rigors of having to go through what it entails to study law.  Some of our friends did that and they are better off today.  Nevertheless, I partially agree with those advocating that government should indeed look into how to make the institution impact the required knowledge.  Stakeholders’ in the Bar and Bench are worried that court orders are not being respected by the executive arm and the security agencies; especially those holding high profile detainees, are you not worried too? Any right thinking person’s would be worried. And until the judiciary is functioning, there can’t be a law abiding society.  The moment the executive or even the security agencies or even parastaltals decided to refuse to obey court orders; then we are calling for anarchy. We are simply telling foreign countries and followers of events within and outside the country that we are not a serious nation.  So, every reasonable person should condemn such act in strong terms. If you observed very well, many people ranging from lawyers and other personalities have both condemned disrespect for court others.  Going forward, however, I think the judiciary should henceforth enforce some of these judgments. What do I mean by that; let the conference of all judges revisit the issue and thrash it out. Let them also find an avenue to intimate the President of our country on the danger in him or the executive arm or even the security agencies not respecting court orders.  What about conflicting court judgment by court of similar jurisdiction, can there be a way around it?  As for that, I think what should be done is that; the moment any Judge sees that a verdict has been given in respect of a particular matter, another Judge should endeavor to decline to sit on that matter. Not only that, he could also send them back. Why I am saying this is that we have seen in the past where some court sits over such matter. This for me does not portray the court well and it will even breed confusion. Proffering solution, I also think that the Chief Justice of respective courts should equally sound a note of warnings to all the judges to stop the embarrassing act.  President Muhammadu Buhari signed a bill which amends production sharing contract amidst controversy. What is the constitutional implication especially when it was done outside Nigeria?  Far from it; The President can execute or sign any bill from anywhere because he has been empower to do so and wherever he might be at any point in time does not matter.  In the constitution, no where it is written that he cannot exercise his powers. Mind you, if it is in other country’s constitution that their President cannot act outside his country’s shore, it is not in ours.  The legal brawl between the ruling APC and the opposition PDP that started at the presidential election petition tribunal ended up at the Supreme Court with the latter crying foul after the judgment, what’s your take?  You see, as lawyers we are made and bound to respect. Beautifully, the PDP fought to the peak. But now that they have come to the end, that is all. Onus is on them to support the sitting government to succeed.  And until we begin to see ourselves as Nigerians and not a member of PDP or APC, we may continue to have problems like this and if care is not taken, economic and political progress might elude us.  Are you comfortable with the way the war against corruption is being fought by the ruling party? Let me first sound it clearly here that there is no country in the world that is immune from corruption or has zero corruption as it were. We should appreciate the fact that this government is doing its best in fighting the hydra-headed corruption.  We can only hope that another government maintains the tempo after this administration tenure would have elapsed.  So, in fighting corruption, anyone found wanting should be made to face the music within the ambit of the law. Honestly, Mr. President is trying his best but he alone cannot do it. What about allegation of corruption leveled against the judiciary?   I make bold to say that if at all such existed then it has reduced. Hardly will any judge ask for bribe or what have you. In many of our courts today, you would see Judges speaking openly against corruption and warning defendants, plaintiffs the complainants and all the litigants in the court that look; “I do not ask any of my registrar to collect anything on my behalf.”  That goes to tell you that corruption is being fought in the judiciary too as against the impression being created in some quarters.  I will nevertheless encourage our Judges to be bold and fearless in the discharge of their duties. They should give judgment even if it is against Mr. President and, if such judgment is not respected, it would be on record that they have done the needful. Some NGOs and other victims of rape are advocating castration for rapists and also blacklisting them, how justifiable?  No, it is not justifiable. I think they are also human being and they also deserve some level of dignity. I discussed that recently with a friend of mine who happens to be a Judge.  But I think the law establishing who is being raped ought to be reviewed. It is worthy to say here that it is always difficult to apprehend rapist except the person confesses, it is unarguable and challengeable.  However, I agree that there must be punishment but not castration as being proposed by some sections of the society. Sentence of say 5 years without an option of fines will do hoping that by the time such person is left off the hooks, he would learn his lesson.  On being blacklist, it is not also a violation of such person’s rights because any convicted persons by the court has already dented his reputation. That accounts for why you see that it is always difficult for such people to run for any political office.