The number of subscribers to the 23 mobile money operators (MMOs) in the country stood at 9.25million as at the first half of this year, the Managing Director and Chief Executive of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Alhaji Umaru Ibrahim, has said. He disclosed this at the 16th edition of the workshop for business editors and members of tmFinance Correspondents Association of Nigeria (FICAN), which ended in Yola yesterday. Represented by Mohammed Kudu of the Communications and Public Affairs Department of the NDIC, Ibrahim cited the provision of Deposit Insurance Coverage (DIS) to subscribers of MMOs to maximum limit of ₦500,000.00 through the Pass-Through Deposit Insurance Framework, as one   of the significant reforms embarked upon by the corporation. Another such reform, according to him,   is the NDIC’s extension of DIS coverage to micro finance banks (MFBs) and primary mortgage banks (PMBs). He said: “In 2010, the maximum deposit insurance coverage was increased from N200,000 and N100,000 to N500,000 and N200,000 for deposit money banks (DMBs) and MFBs and PMBs, respectively. The coverage level for the PMBs was later reviewed upward to N500, 000.” Other significant reforms embarked upon by the NDIC  during  the period, according  to Ibrahim,  are the development of Enterprise Risk Management, implementation of Differential Premium Assessment System (DPAS), Capacity Building in Risk-Based Supervision (RBS), deployment of a Performance Management System, enhanced Deb Recovery System and increased pay-out to both insured and uninsured depositors. The NDIC boss also  stated that  as at June 30, 2019, the corporation received a total number of 35 petitions/complaints from  bank customers on various issues such as  Automated Teller Machine (ATM) fraud, unauthorised fund transfers  and cheque related  problems, adding  that  “investigations and mediation were carried out where necessary and customers were appropriately reprieved.” In addition, he emphasised that following the issuance of the framework for licensing and regulation of payment service banks (PSBs) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which stipulated the extension of deposit insurance coverage to PSB depositors, the NDIC  would protect the depositors of PSBs and guarantee  to pay them N500,000.00 as insured sum in the event of  the financial institutions’ closure. Noting that fintech and digital currencies were witnessing rapid deployment globally and in these parts, the NDIC chief executive pointed out that the corporation  in  August 2019, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on experience sharing and capacity building with the Korean Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) and the Taiwan Central Deposit Insurance Corporation to further deepen the implementation of the DIS in Nigeria, adding that the MOU also aims to enhance the NDIC’s capacity to understand and supervise the fintech and the digital currencies phenomenon.” He stated that the support of the media had been instrumental to the successful implementation of the DIS by the corporation since its inception 30 years ago, noting that “it is in recognition of the crucial and strategic role the media has to play in the actualisation of our own objectives that the NDIC has remained faithful in its support for the annual FICAN conference along with the editors’ forum.”