President Muhammadu Buhari has challenged leaders of the West African sub-region to evolve new strategies that will fast-track speedy economy growth and end insecurity. The President stated this on Saturday at the 56th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of the Heads of State and Government which held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said:  “Let me now restate Nigeria’s commitment to regional integration and stress the need to always channel our energies towards realising new strategies and initiatives, which will accelerate the attainment of our regional aspirations for sustainable peace, security, stability and inclusive economic growth.” President Buhari lamented that terrorism remains the major threat to the peace and progress of the region.  According to him, attempts by terrorist groups remind the sub-region of the urgency to build an enduring security partnership to confront and defeat the evil of cross-border terrorism.  Buhari noted that: “It is always gratifying when our regional Bloc comes together in the determination to advance our agenda for regional integration and promote the socioeconomic development of our subregion.  “It was with great shock and immense pain that I received the news of the tragedy last week in the Tilabari Region of Niger Republic, where over 33 valiant soldiers and other citizens of the country were brutally massacred in yet another cowardly terrorist attack by these enemies of peace and progress,” he added.  The Nigerian leader called for a minute silence in honour of victims of terrorist attacks in the Tilabari Region of Niger Republic, where over 70 soldiers and other citizens were killed by the terrorists.  In his remarks, the President of the Republic of Niger and Chairman of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government, Mahamadou Issoufou, said the creation of a common area of peace, security and economic integration, is the key to the future of the region.  Issoufou explained that the region had been hard hit by terrorist attacks which were intensified with every passing day, threatening the many national and regional achievements the region had made. He said: “We therefore hope that the prompt implementation of the recommendations of our extraordinary summit on terrorism held on September 14, 2019, will enable us to collectively meet this challenge which appears to be an attack by faithless criminals on our dignity and sovereignty,” Issoufou said.  The Nigerien President further said the terrorist attacks continued to test the region’s commitment to fighting the scourge, stating that it was incumbent upon the region to respond to all the attacks with firmness and determination. Also speaking, the President of the ECOWAS Commission, Jean-Claude Kassi Brou, said it was clear that the recent terrorist attacks in the region and the thought of the many civilian and military victims will only strengthen the region’s resolve to collectively and effectively fight to eradicate the scourge.  “In the first eleven months of 2019, terrorist attacks increased by almost 80 percent, compared to the same period in 2018 and caused more than 1,800 civilian and military casualties. This situation has led to a humanitarian crisis with the displacement of nearly 2.8 million people and the closure of hundreds of schools,” Brou said.   Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for West Africa and the Sahel (UNOWAS), Mohammed Ibn Chambas, while speaking, said the times called on all to stand together and to summon the best values in overcoming the canker that threatens the entire sub-region.  “To definitively defeat and eradicate terrorism, there was the need to complement the military and security approaches with developmental approaches that address the root causes of the scourge,” he said.  Chambas added that in that regard, UNOWAS will continue to enhance coordination with ECOWAS, the G5 Sahel, the Lake Chad Basin Commission, especially its Governors’ Forum and other partners within the framework of the United Nations Integrated Strategy for the Sahel towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and long-term stabilization.  Also speaking at the event, the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina, said the AfDB will support the region in tackling its challenges. The meeting was also attended by Nigeria’s former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon.