●Policy to boost implementation of Nigerian Content Policy, says NCDBM  The award of $368 million contracts to 120 local contractors at the site of 650,000 barrels per day capacity Dangote Petroleum Refinery will further boost implementation of local content policy in Nigeria. Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board, (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, who was quoted to have said this, maintained that the $12 billion project under construction is expected to be a part of major contributors to Nigeria content development initiative. This, a statement from Dangote Petroleum Refinery quoted Wabote to have said, is already being done through the award of contracts to Nigerian contractors, thereby building local capacity. The private refinery owned by Dangote Group is under construction in Lekki Free Trade Zone, Nigeria. When completed, it will have a capacity to process about 650,000 barrels per day of crude oil. Recall that the company recently announced the award of $368 million contract to 120 local contractors at the site, as part of its contribution to Nigeria content development initiative. The company revealed that there were several Nigerian content opportunities in the company’s refinery and petrochemical project. Speaking on the sideline of the 9th Practical Nigerian Content, Wabote said: “First of all, to be able to drive local content you need projects. For the fact that Dangote has been able to site it project in-country is the first step to the actualisation of Local content. “Dangote might as well had taken the refinery elsewhere, but he decided to execute the project in Nigeria, so that is a plus to the Nigeria investment sector. Secondly, at the peak of the construction of the refinery, about 65, 000 workers are on site, and the majority of those workers in terms of ratio that are providing various services, are Nigerians. “Also, there is a lot of sub-contract that have been awarded within the projects site, the majority of those contracts are executed by Nigerian companies. To a very large extent, that is an example of believing in your country and trying to do things to enhance the development of your country. “Although they are sited in the free trade zone, which has its own advantages, and off course he is entitled to enjoy those free trade advantages as enshrined in the law, but in terms of local content, it is a typical example of someone who believes in his country, someone who is patriotic to establish such a monumental projects within the shores of our land.” He commended the company for training young Nigerians who will eventually take up the management of the refinery, saying “we will all eventually retire one day, and young people will take over from us. Those of us at the industry, at 60 we will all retire and then these engineers will take over from us.”