A talented Nigerian actor, dancer and model, Chinedu Mitchel Chizoba, is popularly known in the Nigerian entertainment scene as Small Daddy. Having been featured in various Nigerian movies including Ariri, Agatha, Onikede, Asunder  and as well in commercials like MTN Xtra Value Bundle (2016),  Divine Intervention, Glo Wishbones among others, the actor spoke to ROSEMARY NWOSU in this interview.    What year did you decide to join Nollywood? True I had been around but I finally got the opportunity to join the movie industry in 2015 which is 4 years ago looking back now. Which is the first movie you took part in and what role did you play in it? The first movie I was cast in is titled Ariri and it is an Igbo glamour movie. The title translates to ‘’Secret Pains’’ in English and I played the role of the son of the lead character in the movie. Since you started getting famous, have you ever felt intimidated about your height as a celebrity? Never have I been intimidated or felt like it. I saw it as an opportunity and my selling point. An old man with a young look. I can be featured as either a child or any younger man in any movie role given to me. Knowing that challenges would come in every situation, how do you deal with them? I just think about it and pray to God about the challenges at hand. Is it right to say Chinedu Ikedieze and Osita Iheme are your models due to the mutual characteristics you share with them? There is no mincing words about the fact that my role models are Chinedu Ikedieze and Osita Iheme. Just imagine how they started and where they are now in their respective careers. They give me the inspiration and zeal to move forward and never to look back on any situation. If you had to choose a movie star, you will love to act with, who will it be and why? I would still mention Chinedu Ikedieze and Osita Iheme. They are unique in their acting and they take it with all seriousness and passion, no matter the movie they are working on or the role they are playing in it. Do you see yourself as the next Aki and Pawpaw in this 21st century? No because as much as I hope for the level of grace and fame they enjoyed with the ground-breaking movie, I want to come up with my own trend and likeness. Aside from being an actor, what other talent do you hope to explore? I dance, I model and I love cooking. These are things that I love doing most and I’m very good at them. Have you anything professionally with any of these other talents? Not much yet but I have plans concerning them. However, I have danced in a music video. Which music video is that? I was featured in the video of MC Galaxy’s song titled ‘OHAA’ and the added detail about that is that I even won the dance challenge he held on Instagram in 2018 after releasing the song. Why do you refer to yourself or you are referred to as ‘Small Daddy’? I just wanted to create something different and outside the box and also what people should know me as, which is funny. And when I thought about it for a while, that’s what came to my head and I adopted it as my stage name. Where do you see yourself in the next 5 years? I wish to see myself in high places owning different businesses and media firms and married too. Which talent of yours would you say is looking to aid your major breakthrough? I would say dancing and acting. I am looking at either of them, especially acting because it has brought me to limelight and where I am today. What advice do you have to give to youths that also want to make it in the entertainment industry? They should put all their best in what they do and they should be consistent. Never let anyone pull you down or make you feel less of a person.