Chief David Lyon the governor elect of Bayelsa State on Wednesday urged the transition committee set up by the All Progressives Congress to scrutinize the accounts of Governor Henry Dickson’s administration urging them to identify failures of the outgoing administration.
Inaugurating the committee in Yenagoa, the state capital, David Lyon urged them but also proffer possible solutions to tackle economic, security, development, infrastructure and the several other areas that often put the machinery of government in the negative perspective.
Lyon also set out a 12-point term of reference for the committee including the close monitoring of Dickson’s dealings with banks and financial institutions and scrutinise bills passed into law within the past four years.
Among other terms of reference are for the committee to interface with the out-going Administration for purposes of a smooth hand-over/take-,over and receive hand-over documents from Ministries, Departments and Agencies.
Chief Lyon, in his speech, also noted that though the challenges before the APC and the incoming administration is enormous, “No doubt, there are enormous challenges facing us as a people. Some of you here have witnessed these challenges before and may have, in your heart, been thinking of what you would do to address them if given the opportunity.
“Some others are here to contribute fresh ideas towards addressing the issues before us. We have often talked about the failures of the outgoing government and its inability to solve the problems bedeviling our state.
“The onus now lies on us to bring to bear those solutions that we have, for long, kept in our hearts. You must remember that the task before us is enormous and must, therefore, bring your utmost best in proffering solutions to our numerous challenges.”
He also pointed out that the size of the transition committee is made up of a “group of people with common dreams and ideologies who share common pains, aspirations and goals.”
Speaking, the Chairman of the Transition Committee and former Acting Governor, Werinipre Seibarogu, thanked the party and the Governor-elect for the opportunity to serve and vowed to fulfil the terms of reference handed the committee.