 The Senate, yesterday, directed its Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, to thoroughly investigate the widely reported invasion of the Federal High Court, Abuja, last week Friday, by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS). The court invasion occurred during the trial of the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, before Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu. The resolution to carry out the probe was sequel to a motion of urgent public importance raised by the Chairman of the Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele. He drew the attention of the Chamber to the invasion and controversy trailing it, when he cited Order 43 of the Senate’s Standing Rules, arguing that since the matter had come to public domain, there was need for the Senate to look into it. The lawmaker noted that Senate’s attention on the matter was specifically needed in addressing the concerns it had raised within the leadership of the judiciary in particular in the last one week. He said: “I rise to draw the attention of this Senate to a matter that has been in public domain and especially as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, the reported alleged invasion of the courtroom again by alleged officials of the DSS. “It is one issue that has raised a lot of concern in different quarters in Nigeria. The leadership and members of the judiciary are particularly concerned about this development because they believe, like the rest of us do, that the courtroom is meant to be a sanctuary. But for us as Senate, we cannot begin to take a position or analyse the issues based on conclusion without facts that we consider incontrovertible. “Yet, much as we cannot just jump into conclusions, it is also a fact that we cannot pretend not to know that Nigerians are concerned about this development. “The reason I have chosen to come under Order 43 so that I will not generate any controversy or even make the Senate to begin to debate or engage in a debate over an issue in respect of which, like I said earlier, we still need to have incontrovertible facts and evidence. “In view of this, I just want to say that as elected representatives of the people in whom Nigerians, including the judiciary, must find their voice that we mandate our Committee on National Security and Intelligence to interface with the relevant security agencies, look into this matter, investigate what happened and report back to the Senate on this matter.” In his remarks, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, directed the Senate Committee on Judiciary to carry out the investigation and report back within a week. Lawan explained that since Bamidele moved the motion through Order 43 under personal explanation, there would be no debate on it. “Distinguished colleagues, you know Order 43 does not allow for any debate and since this is a matter that affects the judiciary, we rather mandate to your committee to find out what happened. “So I would suggest that our committee on judiciary investigates, finds out what actually happened and then report back to us in one week,” he said.