As waste management continues to pose serious challenge in Lagos, Muritala Ayinla reports that thousands of residents of Lanre community and other areas on LASU-Igando Road are at the risk of an outbreak of epidemic and sudden death due to the increasing dumpsites overrunning the habitats and polluting their water   As the weather changed with powerful winds threatening to remove the roofs of houses in the neighborhood of Unity community,  a burgeoning settlement in Igando  overrun by heaps of refuse,  Mrs Bunmi Aribedesi, 54, a food vendor,  was also  busy cooking with her charcoal stove. She joined other residents and property owners in silent prayers against the downpour that could flood the dumpsite and consequently spill into and submerge their community. But it appeared the rain was more than prepared to descend heavily. As the atmosphere became cloudy with intense lightening which heralded an impending rain, flames from her charcoal stove went off with powerful winds which almost upturned the pot and its contents; she hurried to fetch a wooden plank to cover the violent breeze. But in one fell swoop, the rain began in torrents and in the twinkle of an eye, the flood enveloped the community. The flood carrying heaps of refuse from the dumps took over the community and rendered the environment impassable. For nearly two hours, it rained heavily and throughout the day, Aribidesi, the Oyo State-born trader could neither display her food items nor sell as the flood water from the dumpsites which surround her house had submerged her environment, forcing some residents to remain indoors for days while some pupils couldn’t go to school until the flood subsided. Her sad tale is one of the frequent experiences of residents and business owners at Lanre, Oko Filling, Ile-Epo, Unity and other suburbs where dumpsites are situated on the Lagos State University–Iba Road near the ever-busy Igando town in Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos. Residents of these communities in the heart of Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial hub, literally live and procreate in the midst of mountainous refuse sites which occupy the large expanse of land in the community. The dumpsites are one of the major recognised landfills by the Lagos State Waste Management Authority, LAWMA, the agency saddled with the responsibility of managing waste in the state. They are officially referred to as Solous Sites and classified into three namely:  Solous I, Solous II and Solous III. The Solous (Landfills) The landfills otherwise referred to as Solous are located at the extreme east-west area of metropolitan Lagos in Alimosho Local Government. Like other landfills, they receive waste of different kinds ranging from domestic, commercial and industrial sources from major parts of the state metropolis. The sites were originally pits for lateritic soil, bordered by residential housing. The wastes brought by trucks are dumped haphazardly without the use of daily soil cover and are sorted by the on-site waste pickers. Solous (1) Landfill encompasses an area of 7.5 hectares and located on N060 34. 307’, E0030 15.  It is the oldest of the sites. It began operation in 1993 and closed in 2006 without the use of a final cap or cover. It was reopened in 2011 and has since been in use. Solous (2)  which occupies (N060 34. 286’, E0030 15. 146’) spreads over an area of 7.8 hectares and it started operation in 2008 and on an average about 2,250m3/day of waste is dumped at the site.  Solous (3) is located (N060 33. 897’, E00 30 15. 082’) started operation in 2008 and is estimated to receive about 2,250m3 wastes daily. It is divided into cells with access roads. It is the largest of the three sites, spreading over an area of 12 hectares. It is flanked by Alimosho General Hospital, Igando. With the growing refuse dumpsites which are fast degrading the environment, life is gradually departing these communities as residents only exist but are losing everything that makes the world worth living. They exist without freedom to fresh air to breathe and ambience environment to live. They are limited to their rooms or apartments while many hardly open their windows for fresh air as their atmosphere is constantly polluted. In these neighborhoods leading to the state university and playing host to the general hospital of Lagos’ most populous settlement, Alimosho, every passer-by, whether in the vehicles or walking through the area, is usually welcomed by the disgusting stench from the compactors conveying refuse usually parked haphazardly on LASU-Igando Road. The air pollution in this part of Lagos is intense. Speaking on the agonizing experience of the residents, Aribidesi lamented that for over 10 years they had been virtually living amidst refuse dump, saying that the government had practically looked away while their once serene environment is being turned to ‘refuse city.’ “This is no longer a community where you can sit comfortably outside your house to relax and get fresh air, our air has been polluted. What we breathe in is polluted air and toxic air coming from the burning dumpsites surrounding us. When you open a bottle of drink, hundreds of flies besiege your drink,” she said. According to her, beyond the fact that the existence of the residents is constantly being threatened by the refuse and the reek oozing out from the area, businesses and other economic activities are collapsing rapidly while shops and businesses are closing down due to the stench which has enveloped the community. “No matter how I make my shop environment tidy and attractive in spite of the filths in our community, customers have stopped to eat in my shop, since I can’t control the polluted air that comes from the dumpsites. Now, it is difficult to sell four cups of rice daily. The sets of people left with me as customers are the scavengers and cart pushers from the dumpsite. We only hope that someday, a governor with heart of gold will pay attention to our environment.” If Mrs Aribidesi is still hopeful about the possibility of government’s intervention in the area, Funsho Olalude, 57, who owns and operates a relaxation centre in the area, seems to have given up hope in the likelihood of government coming to his rescue. The businessman said that the proximity of the dumpsite has hampered his multi-million naira investment from growing; saying so much has been lost and still being lost with the presence of refuse dumps. He said: “It is ironical that successive administrations in Lagos, which boasted of growing the state’s economy, have also killed so many businesses in this environment through siting of dumpsites on this axis.” Olalude, who owns a big restaurant and relaxation centre in the area, added “our kind of business requires a serene environment where people can relax in a good ambience. But we no longer get patronage like in the past because of the terrible smell emission from the dumpsite. Foul odour from decomposing garbage has dominated the air. We perceive the stench as oxygen while the whole environment is a ‘no go area’ whenever it rains; it is terribly flooded. We are living in a world of pollution; our air, environment and most sadly our water.” Polluted water as a major burden Besides the pain of having to live in the perpetually putrid stench hanging thickly in the air threatening their existence, the underground water in these communities has also been badly polluted with the presence of the landfills in their vicinity, which experts described as a clear indication of failure on the part of government to carry out environmental impact assessment tests before the siting of the landfills in the area. From Lanre Street to Alhaji Sekoni Way, come the lamentations over contaminated underground water; from Raimi Ajibowo to Somoye Ogundairo and other areas in the vicinity, nobody could boast of fresh and clean water. From the streets filled with murky water where people make use of rain boots to navigate to the ones where makeshift wooden bridges were made for accessibility, no single house in these neighborhoods has potable water. Sadly, virtually every house has a borehole sunk or a domestic well dug for their own use but none could use the water. The landfill gas and heavy metals, among other hazardous elements in the landfills, have polluted their underground water which is threatening their existence. Environmental degradation on this side of Lagos is not limited to air pollution; inhabitants of these communities are constantly at the mercy of water-borne diseases.  Not even the staff and patients at the Alimosho General Hospital located in the area are safe from the contaminated water. Boreholes and domestic wells within the hospital are also badly infested with contamination from the landfills. For over a decade, the experiences of these categories of Lagosians comprising property and business owners and tenants could be better imagined. Throughout the year, whether in the rainy season when the flood from the dumpsites submerge their buildings and sack some of them from their houses or in the harmattan, when the flood subsides but leaves their environment in perennial air pollution occasioned by frequent open refuse burning on the dumpsites, there is no time their water is safe for drinking or other uses. The water from their boreholes and domestic wells has become frothy, dark and smells to the extent that they could hardly do anything with it. Evidences are bound that these residents die slowly and silently owing to myriads of pollution they are exposed to. Firms, hospitals and other people in the area depend on water sourced from Egbeda, Ikotun, Isheri and other areas far away from the dumpsites. The state water corporation that could have come to their rescue hardly supplies them water. Like their counterparts in other parts of the state, they have spent huge amounts of money to sink boreholes and dig domestic wells but could not have access to good water due to their proximity to the landfill.  Water runs from their taps and filled their well, but they couldn’t use it. While some have practically abandoned and condemned the water, others still use the water for domestic use. Yet some dangerously ignore the colour and smell of the water to manage it for other uses, an act, experts described as “deadly mission.” As most residents lament the untold hardship over perpetual search for clean water in the area, it was a double jeopardy for Mrs Adesuwa James, one of the landlords whose lives and property were threatened by the dumpsites. Mrs James, like many other landlords, had to flee her residence when the flood submerged her buildings and others numbering about 15 on Raimi Ajibowo Street. According to her, the landfill near the General Hospital has blocked all the drains in the area such that whenever it rains heavily, their houses are usually flooded and sometimes submerged during the rainy season. Before she abandoned the property, she said water from one of her two boreholes was used only to flush the toilet why the other was completely useless. When this reporter visited her house, it was observed that houses numbering about 15 were already immersed in the dark water from the landfill. Only the roofs of the houses were seen while some have been completely covered by the flood. “Before we fled the house, we had two boreholes; none was useful to cook anymore. We started noticing the pollution of our water about 11 years ago, when cholera, dysentery and other borne diseases were prevalent in the community. Since then, we have stopped to use the water for anything except to flush the toilet,” James explained. If one thinks only the residents cry over lack of access to fresh water, interactions with business owners in the area also reveal that entrepreneurs are also groaning over the dwindling fortune of their investments in the axis. Mr Kayode Mukaila, 54, who operates a sachet water business also known as “Pure Water” in the area, said he had begun the process of closing down his business completely because of the menace of the dumpsite. According to the Osun State-born, entrepreneur, it has become glaring that his business couldn’t longer survive in the environment as nothing suggests that their environmental challenges will be addressed anytime soon. Mukaila, a father of six, who took this reporter round all the boreholes he had sunk and condemned following the contamination of the water, said that what had kept his water business was that he had other branches in Ikotun and Ijegun where he also operates. He explained: “I would have left these premises earlier, but I thought the state government would fulfill its promise to decommission the landfill. Our sources of water in this area have been contaminated. With more trucks coming to deposit refuse here, it is evident that there is no end in sight.” Mother, child sleep in toilet as flood takes over community   When rain is mentioned, or it becomes cloudy, it elicits mixed reactions from some people in Lagos. Ordinarily, there shouldn’t be any problem with rain, but there are lots of troubles attached to it. In a dumpsite located in… In "The Mega City / Life" A community in Igando part of Lagos State is under siege in various ways. Despite the health and other dangers inherent, the residents are reluctant to leave the area. Juliana Francis reports   Seventy-one-year-old Mrs. Deborah Awoleru has been living at Odubanjo Street, Igando community at the dumpsite by Oko-filling… In "Insight" Lagos State, being a metropolitan city is undergoing a rapid socio-economic growth with the megacity dream registered on almost Lagos residents’ mind. However, one thing stands as the bulging impediment – the filth in almost every nook and cranny!   Lagos is infamous for its massive dump sites – the… In "The Mega City / Life"