The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday felicitated with Christian faithful all over the country as they celebrate this year’s Christmas. In his goodwill message to Nigerians, he charged Christians and indeed all Nigerians not to forget the essence of the celebration, which is the birth of Jesus Christ and his ideals, stressing that the birth of Jesus Christ was an example of humility. He noted that Jesus Christ lived and preached peace, love, tolerance and self-sacrifice, pointing out that these virtues transcended religion and should be emulated by all Nigerians. His words: “I heartily felicitate with Nigerians, particularly the Christian faithful, on the Christmas and New Year festivities. “The birth of Jesus Christ is a great example of humility. He lived and preached peace, love, tolerance and self-sacrifice, and left mankind with the hope of eternal joy.” “These virtues transcend religion and deserve to be embraced by all Nigerians especially as we go through the challenges of nation-building and development. Also, the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege stressed the need for unity, even as he called on Nigerians to be their brothers’ keepers. In his Christmas message yesterday, Omo-Agege urged Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of Christmas by reaching out to the less privileged in the society. A statement by Yomi Odunuga, Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, to the Deputy President of the Senate, quoted him as stating that: “As we celebrate the birth of our Saviour, this is also a time for reflection and new resolve towards ensuring unity of purpose and facilitating giant strides forward. “Christmas retells not only the story of the birth of Jesus Christ about 2,000 years ago but also, that of great faith , great hopes well as the involvement of many, including weary travelers, shepherds, Maggi and others in the birth of our Saviour.” Similarly, former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekwremadu, in his goodwill message to the Christian faithful at Christmas, called on Nigerians to pursue peace and show love in order to move the nation forward. The lawmaker, who spoke at the annual Christmas outreach to widows by his wife, Dr. Nwanneka Ekweremadu, called for the revival of the values of love and unity in order to move the nation forward. “The core message of Christmas is love as demonstrated by God, who gave His only begotten son, Jesus Christ, to be born as man for our salvation. “This season is therefore a call to show unconditional love, for we cannot claim to love God if we do not show love to our fellow men created in the image and likeness of God.”