*Mourns as Reps lose another member Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, on Monday, urged Nigerians to support their elected federal lawmakers towards achieving better representation.
Gbajabiamila spoke in Sagamu, Ogun State at the inauguration of constituency office of the lawmaker representing Remo Federal Constituency, Hon. Adewunmi Onanuga.
Apart from the constituency office, Onanuga, who is a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Chairman, House Committee on Women Affairs and Social Development, also donated multi-million naira empowerment items to her constituents.
Items donated by the lawmaker include tricycles, deep freezers, sterilizers, generating sets, grinding machines, gas cookers, wall clocks, hair dryers, mattresses and standing fans.
Governor Dapo Abiodun, represented by his deputy, Engr. Noimot Salako-Oyedele; wife of the governor, Mrs Bamidele Abiodun, former House of Assembly Speaker, Chief Muyiwa Oladipo, and chairman, National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos State Council, Musiliu Akinsanya, were among the dignitaries at the event held at the Akarigbo palace ground.
In his brief remarks while handing over the empowerment items to some beneficiaries, Gbajabiamila enjoined APC members in the federal constituency to increase their support for Onanuga in order to deliver more dividends of democracy to the people.
Meanwhile, the Speaker has expressed sadness over the demise of the member representing Magama/Rijau federal constituency of Niger State, Rep. Ja’afaru Iliyasu.
Rep. Iliyasu, a member of the ruling APC who was one of the 360 members of the 9th House that took the oath of office and allegiance on June 11, 2019, passed away on Monday morning at his Maitama residence in Abuja.
He had just returned to Abuja on Sunday after a retreat organised for members of the House committee on Public Accounts in Lagos.
The Speaker said he was “deeply shaken” by the demise of the Niger Rep, whom he described as a gentleman who showed great willingness and determination to work with his other colleagues to make good laws for the country.