Youths yesterday set ablaze a church, Sotitobire Miracle Centre, in Akure, Ondo State, over rumour that the body of a missing boy, Gold Kolawole, was found in the church. Two people were also reportedly shot dead by the police during the fracas. The mob also torched vehicles belonging to the church as well as the operational vehicle of the police and other properties within the church premises. The youth, in their hundreds, who mobilised to the church, had accused the founder of the church, Prophet Babatunde Alfa, of using the one-year-old boy child for rituals. On November 10, 2019, Gold was declared missing after the church programme at Sotitobire Miracle Centre. Gold’s mother, Mrs. Modupe Kolawole, had dropped him off at the church’s children department during service. A month after Alfa was arrested by officials of the Department of State Services (DSS) based on a petition over alleged failure by the police to investigate the boy’s disappearance. During the attack on the church yesterday, some journalists and residents caught up in the crisis, were harassed and injured as thugs loyal to Alfa confronted the youth. Correspondents of Western Post and Sahara Reporters were reportedly attacked by the thugs. The victims said the police were present while they were being attacked. The vehicles of the affected journalists were also destroyed by the hoodlums under the alleged watch of policemen. Meanwhile, the police have urged residents to disregard the rumour that Gold’s body was found in the church. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, said this in a statement. He said: “The Ondo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public, particularly the people of Ondo State that they should disregard the rumours making the rounds that the body of a recently declared missing boy in the state has been exhumed from Sotitobire church in Akure. “It is most unfortunate that this misleading information spearheaded by a popular TV station has ignited a spontaneous reaction from the people leading to wanton destruction of properties and injuries to many. “The church building was also set ablaze by irate youths. Some of our officers despatched to the scene to contain the situation were pelted with stones with many of them sustaining injuries. “Their patrol vehicle was also badly damaged. This rejoinder became necessary to disabuse the minds of many Nigerians who might have fallen for these wicked lies and propaganda. “The public should also not be hoodwinked by reports that the command has abandoned the investigation of the incident, as the case file is already on the way to the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) for legal advice. “Notwithstanding this latest incident, more reinforcement has been sent to the scene to contain the situation.”