T heatre enthusiasts, artistes, critics and others that attended the Lagos Fringe Festival 2019, and had the opportunity to watch the stage presentation of Nwa Chukwu, a spoken word performance by Ndukwe Onuoha, featuring Maka and Tonie The Emperor, cannot but note with nostalgia, the sheer brilliance and rich theatrical resonance.  The Lagos Fringe Festival is an open access multidisciplinary arts festival for producers, culture advocates, exhibitors and performers to showcase their work, either existing or new work to a diverse audience consisting of local and international audiences, venue owners, curators and arts buyers.  The six-day Lagos Fringe Festival 2019, organised in partnership with Multichoice Nigeria, British Council Nigeria, Freedom Park and the Alliance Francaise, took place on 19th to 24th November, 2019, at various venues across the city of Lagos.  It thus afforded teeming theatre enthusiasts opportunity to rich and engaging spoken word performances as well as dozens of other theatrical presentations. Indeed, spoken word performance has continued to assert its relevance and place in live theatre, just as it continues to thrill, provoke discourse and inspires audiences across the country.  The piece, Nwa Chukwu, is a stage adaptation of Onuoha’s Spoken Word album, titled Nwa Chukwu. Onuoha fuses a unique conversational delivery with traditional instrumentation to convey “poetry that is accessible, relatable and at once punchy”.  Born and raised in Aba, Abia State, Nigeria, Onuaha studied History and International Relations at Abia State University, but has worked in advertising ever since.  For him, poetry, a form of literature that uses aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language—such as phonaesthetics, sound symbolism, and metre—to evoke meanings, is an important tool for keeping social issues on the front burner of society.  “Spoken word performance is a very important tool for keeping social issues on the front burner of society, and should be kept alive by all means. “I fuse a unique conversational delivery with traditional instrumentation to deliver poetry that is accessible, relatable and at once punchy. I’m an incurable ad man, and an award-winning copywriter and Creative Director of 7even Interactive, a fast-rising advertising agency in Lagos, Nigeria.  Nwa Chukwu: Spoken word performance, he says, was inspired by the need to start a conversation about identity. “More and more, we see many young Nigerians shirk their identity in favour of Western ideals.  So I wanted to start a conversation about identity and what it means to be Nigerian.”  According to him, the presentation at the Lagos Fringe Festival was the first of many performances. “This is my first theatre production, so I had to learn as we went along.  Poems for Nwa Chukwu were written and performed by Ndukwe Onuoha, featuring Maka and Tonie The Emperor.   The performance was directed by Ndukwe Onuoha and Tonie The Emperor, and produced by Tonie The Emperor.