R ivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has described the state government’s investment in Oil Mining License (OML) 11 as the height of resource control, noting that it would promote the interest of host stakeholder communities and ensure peace in the operation of the oil facility.  The governor, who spoke yesterday at the Government House, Port Harcourt, during a solidarity visit by the Ogbakor Etche, said his administration wanted the communities to get the best from the acquisition of OML-11.  Wike added that the state government acquired the OML11 after the High Court ordered the sale of Shell Oil stakes already attached as part of the enforcement of the court judgment initiated by the Ebubu community.  He urged Ogoni people to appreciate the efforts of the Rivers State Government in this regard, saying: “When you talk about resource control, this is resource control. They talk as if OML 11 belongs to them only, which is not correct, as Etche, Bonny, Oyigbo, Ogu/Bolo and Okrika are part of OML 11.”  “What Rivers State Government wants is for the interest of our state to be protected. Whoever that is coming to take over will ensure the interest of the communities is protected. “When the communities are part owners of OML 11, there will be peace. But some people are just sitting down and engaging in unnecessary propaganda.”   It will be recalled that Rivers State acquired 45 per cent interest of Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) in Oil Mining Lease (OML) 11 of the state following it auction by the High Court.   This was even as Wike urged Ogoni people to appreciate the efforts of the state government in this regard, rather than the other way round.   On the OML 25, which the Federal Government gave to Shell Petroleum Development Company, the governor, however, stated that a fraudulent businessman claimed that the Federal Government would grant him the license of the facility.   He recalled that when it turned out that he was lying, the state government worked with host communities to ensure that their interests were protected, while noting that it turned out that the businessman who sponsored falsehood on OML 25 was merely seeking surveillance and labour supply contracts from Shell Petroleum Development Company.   Wike, who also assured Etche people that his administration would always invest in the development of the area, outlined the projects that will be commissioned in the area during the first year of his second term. Governor Wike told the Etche delegation that his administration would revive the Delta Rubber Company through Public-Private-Partnership, adding that by May 2020, his administration will also commission the Cassava Plant and purchase cassava from farmers at prevailing market prices for processing, thereby empowering the farmers.   Meanwhile, the President-General of Ogbakor Etche, Sir Machy Nwodim commended the state government for acquiring the oil facility, saying as part owners of OML 11, Etche Ethnic Nationality views the action as a welcome development. He appealed to the Rivers State Governor to take a similar action on OML 17, where the bulk of Etche oil is from.