Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi was the governorship candidate of the Action Democratic Party (ADP) in Lagos State during the 2019 general election. In this interview, he speaks on human rights abuses, amendment of Electoral Act and Land Use Act, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports   Tuesday was World Human Rights Day and the International Community is concerned about breakdown of human rights in Nigeria vis-à-vis what is happening in the polity. How would you react to the latest development on human rights issues in the country?  It is a thing of concern because we saw the amassing and unbelievable thing, where security officials invaded a courtroom, which has now been excused by one of the aides of the government who said that the invasion was organised by the man who has come to the court to seek relief; that is Omoyele Sowore. Of course that is something that perhaps the media handlers of Muhammadu Buhari administration need a serious talking to because they have dragged Nigeria seriously into serious disrepute and we need to come back from that as quickly as we can. They need to retrace their steps. This is a democracy; this is not a military dictatorship but they are acting as if we are under a military jackboot. That is not the case. We are not going to have that.   Most Nigerians are of the view that happened during last month’s Kogi and Bayelsa governorship elections reiterate the demand for the review of the Electoral Act by the National Assembly. What is your take on that?  The amendments to the Electoral Act should have been signed by President Buhari, but he didn’t. What happened during the 2019 general election and elections that have come up since then like the Bayelsa and Kogi elections showed what the actual intension of President Buhari was by not signing that Electoral Act amendment. We have seen what President Buhari considered to be good election because we saw him congratulating Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. We saw him congratulating him after the election, where people were being shot at from a helicopter, teargas was being thrown around and the handset of the Yahaya Bello campaign was the sounds of gunshots. All of that have no place in democracy. And Mr. President ought to be ashamed of his party (All Progressives Congress, APC) for endorsing such madness.   You were recently given an award as ‘Best Real Estate Developer’ while your estate, Amen Estate won the ‘Happiest Community Award’ at the Real Estate Development Award. What is your take on the awards?   The Real Estate Development Award is a project that I have come to appreciate greatly because it has helped to bring sanity into the industry. If you go around, you will see a lot of private developments that have taken place that are actually helping to enhance the environment. One of the best was of selling the country is through culture and popular culture today is begin to take Lagos as the headquarter, not because of anything that government is doing but because of what the private sector is doing in terms of the built environment. That has helped in terms of musical videos; enhancing the works of our local artists to the point that they are being recognise by their international colleagues in United States, United Kingdom and all over the place. All that was made possible by the activities of those of us in the real estate sector that have delivered our estates as locations for the shooting of all these videos that are now been shown on the global stage.   As an estate developer, what is your take on the Land Use Act, which was one of the issues you discussed while delivering a lecture at the Real Estate Development Award?  The Land Use Act has the unsalutary effect of taken away the ownership of land from the people of Nigeria and handling it to the governors of the state in Nigeria. In fact in my own opinion, it is something that somehow detached from the possibility of the economic growth in Nigeria, and this is born out by the level of development that you see in the country as what you see elsewhere in the world; United States, United Kingdom and all these other developed economy that we have gone to borrowed things like our constitution and legal system and so on from and operate free home system of land ownership, whereas in Nigeria, there is no free home. That is something we need to look at in other to speed up the economic development of Nigeria. And of course because of this Land Use Act, there is no real security of titles because the governors who retained the right revoke the Certificate of Occupancy that they issued.  What about issues surrounding Certificate of Occupancy?   The situation especially in a state like Lagos is that there is a long queue apparently of Certificate of Occupancy on the part of governor or someone within the system piled up somehow. It is an imperfect system. The Land Use Act is not a perfect system and it is something that we are going to have to work with for the time being until we can work out something better and until we can repeal the Land Use Act or review it to give out free hold to their land.  So until that time, the system as it were should be made to work. The system not working is also another reason why the Land Use Act should be revoked. The governors should not have that much power over the land of the people.