●Say govt’s inactions causing losses   COMPENSATION Network operators in the country want government to compensate them over challenges in the operating environment   T elecommunications operators in the country have urged the Federal Government to consider granting rebates on their taxes, which stand at over N200 billion annually. The operators said the discount should be granted on account of various challenges in the operating environment, which lead to loss of revenue.   The Chairman of Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria, (ALTON), Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, who made the call on behalf of the operators, said losses were being incurred as a result of government’s inability to provide adequate security and backbone infrastructure.   “Telecom companies are the biggest taxpayers to the government. The operators pay cumulatively N200 billion annually as taxes and that exclude the Annual Operating Levies (AOL) being paid to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).   “But government’s inactions continue to hamper our operations and causing losses. Every day, telecom infrastructures, which are supposed to be critical national infrastructures are being vandalised because there is no adequate security. “Batteries are being stolen on a daily basis at our cell sites. At this point, we will have to start documenting all the losses so that we can present it to the government and request the amount be deducted from our taxes because the government has failed in their own responsibility,” he said.   Adebayo said that over the years, the sector had contributed tremendously to the gross domestic product of the country and should be given more support by the government. “The growth of the telecommunication industry has been progressive, but we can do better with the help of government,” he said.  He added that insecurity of critical installations and equipment had slowed down the growth of the industry.  According to the ALTON Chairman, poor support for public infrastructure had made the telecommunications operators to invest more in building infrastructure than in innovations.   He said that poor power supply had also made the telecommunication business less profitable. He noted that money being spent on fuelling power generating sets could have been used to provide more quality services for consumers.   Adebayo, therefore, urged the Federal Government to provide stable power supply to reduce expenses on fuelling generators at base stations. He said that in the past 20 years, the sector had contributed immensely in terms of job creation direct and indirectly.   “The telecommunication industry has been an enabler of social inclusion, bridging the digital divide in the country. Our banks today cannot function without the telecommunication sector; imagine a situation where all base stations are shut down; ATMs will not work.  The sector plays a vital role in the economic growth of the country. It is, therefore, essential for the government to put more effort into supporting the sector,” he said.   The latest GDP report released by the National Bureau of Statistics showed the telecoms sector’s contributions to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) plunged by 34 per cent in the third quarter of 2019.   The sector’s contributions dropped from N3.8 trillion in Q2 to N2.5 trillion in Q3 2019. This, however, represents 13.6 per cent growth when compared with the same quarter in 2018, when the sector’s contributions stood at N2.2 trillion. According to NBS’ GDP data, the information and communications sector, under which telecommunications features prominently, contributed 8.54 per cent to nominal GDP in Q3 2019, lower than the 8.70 per cent recorded in the same quarter of 2018 and the 13.83 per cent it contributed in the preceding quarter.  “The sector recorded a growth rate of 9.88 per cent in real terms, year on year. This indicates a decrease of –2.21 per cent points from the rate recorded in the corresponding period of 2018. Quarter on quarter, the sector exhibited a growth rate of –14.89 per cent in real terms.  “As a share of real GDP, the sector contributed 11.34 per cent in Q3 2019, higher than in the same quarter of the previous year in which it accounted for 10.55 per cent of real GDP, but lower than the preceding quarter, in which it accounted for 14.55 per cent,” NBS stated in the GDP report.