In the aftermath of the Federal Government ban of the distribution and production of codeine-based cough syrups, May & Baker Plc said it has lost N700 million in annual income occasioned by the ban. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of May & Baker, Mr. Nnamdi Okafor who made this known, also said the company lost raw materials and finished products worth over N350 million. He made this known at the end of the company’s end of year media parley, which held in Lagos recently. Okafor said most pharmaceutical manufacturers were contending not only with the loss of revenue, but funds already invested in finished and raw materials. The managing director of May & Baker who described 2019 as a challenging year, urged the Federal Government to help pharmaceutical companies pay for the drugs and then, sell them under strict monitoring and control. He said, “For the raw materials, we want to be allowed to convert them, if government also wants to take them over and monitor the usage that is also fine.  That will be best for us.” According to Okafor, currently the company was undergoing a major product portfolio restructuring.  “We were compelled in the last two years to discontinue the production of some of our top cash cow brands as a result of age and change in national treatment protocols and policies. “Some of the products involved are our Sulpha-based ranges, the Nivaquines and 221 brands. “These products were responsible for over N1.2 billion of our annual revenue in 2017.” Speaking on local vaccine production, Okafor hinted that their joint venture company, Biovaccines Nigeria Limited was running fully as an independent company, explaining that it was currently perfecting plans to actualise vaccine production. He recalled that Nigeria spends close to N8 billion every year to import vaccines into the country, while expressing hope that the company would soon actualise the national dream of local production. According to Okafor, the company would save lives of Nigerians needlessly lost during outbreaks. “When we start manufacturing locally, we are not going to save N8 billion because the government will still have to pay but there are some other services around the current procurement process and logistics for bringing in vaccines that the government is paying.