  All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday harvested thousands of members of opposition parties in Lagos State as former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe; his son, Moyosore; ex-Organising Secretary of the Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Mutiu Okunola; former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Tajudeen Agoro, among others officially joined the ruling party in Lagos. The defectors, who trooped into the APC’s secretariat at ACME Road in Ikeja in branded Ankara uniform, were welcome into the ruling party by the Lagos APC Chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun and other executives, leaders and members of the ruling party. Other defectors who were given the APC flag during the defection ceremony were Alhaji Raman Falawe (Lagos Island), Jebe Dayo (Mushin), Adeoye Shamolu (Ojo), Jaiye Agoro (Lagos Mainland), Sukanmi Fabiyi (Apapa) and Arisekola Afeez (Accord Party, Mushin), hundreds of members of the Semiu Kukoyi group in PDP, among others. Speaking while receiving the defectors, Balogun commended all them for joining the ruling party, saying that he was excited that progressives who have left APC are coming back to the ruling party. The APC chairman, who noted PDP is not destined to win elections in the Lagos State, said the opposition party is dead in the state, adding that APC was determined to obliterate the PDP from the political map of Lagos State. He said the defectors had decided to join the APC because of the purposeful leadership the party had been giving to Lagosians in the last 20 years, especially based on the brilliant performance of the incumbent Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, which has performed credibly well by delivering dividends of democracy to Lagosians. He said Governor Sanwo-Olu since assumption of office in May 29 had endeared his administration and the APC to residents of the state, adding that the governor is working hard to improve infrastructure, solve traffic challenges, address environmental issues and responding to other developmental issues in the state. Balogun, while congratulating the defectors for joining APC said they had made the right decision by joining the ruling party and urged them to feel at home. He also assured them that the party would accord them the same opportunities and privileges of old members. His words: “We have gathered today to formally receive to the PDP leaders that have come to join the APC. Most of them were leaders, some of whom were former members of the state House of Assembly, while others have contested for various positions and were defeated by APC candidates. So, they have realised that it is better to be with the progressives. “Their coming will strengthen our party. Politics is a game of number and since they have come in thousands they will add to our votes and our strength. No APC member has joined the PDP but they (PDP) have always joined us. They have joined us because of good governance. They all have the potentials to be who they want to become in the APC. “The PDP is not destined to win elections in Lagos State. We are determined to obliterate the PDP from the political map of Lagos State. “APC has its critical development programme for the 21st century economy of the state. We have our 10-point agenda from the beginning. All the governors of the state right from the period of Alliance for Democracy (AD) to date we have worked through the programme and that have taken us to where we are today and we want to continue to be the leading state in Nigeria and Africa.” Balogun said the continued movements into the party before and after the 2019 elections meant APC was the only party in the state. “In recent times, we have been having defectors from the PDP and other parties into the APC in the state and the reason is clear: the trust in our party is growing. And with these defections of bigwigs from PDP and others, it means the only party in the state right now is APC. “APC is the party for the people. We are the only party with policies and programmes to touch the lives of the people. Lagosians are happy with us and we see more people coming into our fold,” he said. Speaking at the event, Moyosore who joined PDP along with his father few months after the 2019 general elections, said his father, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, could not attend the official ceremony organised yesterday because he was indisposed. The young Ogunlewe, who contested during the 2015 and 2019 to represents Kosofe 1 Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly but lost to APC candidates on both occasions, said he and his father were glad to move into APC with hordes of their supporters. “We are happy to be here; we feel at home. We will do our best to add value to the party and take it to greater heights,” he said. He thanked the party’s leadership for giving them the opportunity to join APC, describing the ruling party as the best place to be. Also speaking at the event, Okunola said his movement from Lagos PDP as a former Organising Secretary of the opposition party with his teeming supporters meant the PDP is dead in the state, noting that he defected to the APC with his supporters to change the narratives. He also promised to do his best to ensure APC remains the only party not only in the state but also in Nigeria. Also speaking to New Telegraph in an exclusive interview shortly after he joined APC in October, Hon. Tajudeen Agoro His words: “I am joining APC because I have seen what is operational in the PDP. I contested twice in the PDP and I was the candidate of the party in the last election for Lagos Mainland Federal Constituency and all the efforts made to ensure that the election was worn by us was frustrated. “Seeing what has happened, I have to change position with my group and the group decided that we must move, so we have to move. And where we are moving to, there are no strangers there. We have people we have done things together; they are wonderful people.” The event was used by a group within the party, known as “Tinubu 2023 Not Negotiable” to drum their supports for the perceived presidential ambition of the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as they stormed the party’s secretariat in branded vehicles, cloths and caps to express their total support for Tinubu to run for 2023 presidency. Though Tinubu has not publicly declare for 2023 presidency but different groups and individuals have already started drumming supports for the former Lagos State governor, calling on him to thrown his heart into the ring to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari come May 29, 2023. Speaking on the need for Tinubu to be Nigeria President, Okunola, who is the leader of Tinubu 2023 Not Negotiable (TNN), a group canvassing for Tinubu running for 2023 presidency, said: “Tinubu is capable. He was eight years governor in Lagos State and Lagos State is like Nigeria. Anybody who has ruled Lagos is capable to rule the whole Nigeria. And not only that, he has shown exemplary leadership. Among all the leaders today, Tinubu stand out. He leads and others follow. “The office eof president is for leader and not for boys. Some of those ‘boys’ showing interest in the presidency in South-West cannot compete with Tinubu. Tinubu made all of them. We have discovered where our problem is and whoever doesn’t want the capable man to govern Nigeria is an enemy of Nigeria.” Among the APC top personalities who graced the event were members of the Governor’s Advisory Council, the apex leadership body of Lagos APC, Cardinal James Odunmbaku and Chief M.A Taiwo; Lagos APC deputy chairman, Chief Sunny Ajose; the party’s Assistant Publicity Secretary and Hon. Abiodun Salami. The popular Fuji musician, Abass Obesere, who also recently defected to the APC, thrilled the crowd throughout the event with music as party’s leaders and members rejoiced over the official defection of members of the opposition to the ruling party.