The Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, is having his hands full in the sector that is very wide and unpredictable with events, crisis and all manner of emergency situations. Sports sector is also a specialized area where the number one person in charge is expected to be vast with rich background to help him/her in taking crucial decisions. We are aware that Dare inherited crisis in some of the federations like football, gymnastics and basketball. It is sad basketball is factionalized just like football was for about three years until recently. The crisis affected the country in terms of results as the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) chieftains were busy fighting for legitimacy rather than prepare Eagles for crucial games. Only recently, athletics also joined the league of crisis bodies. We frown at the fact that there are two factional presidents of the federation for now. The Sports Minister is in a position to bring the two together and resolve the crisis. We hereby charge the minister to do just that as the Tokyo Olympic Games draw near. Earlier this month, all the ministers including Dare marked 100 days in office and it is of note that the sports minister hit the ground running by engaging major stakeholders in the sector to understand the problem areas. Last week in Lagos, the Adopt-An-Athlete scheme was inaugurated by the Sports Minister. Already, wrestler Odunayo Adekuoroye, Tobi Amusan, Ese Brume and 11 others have been confirmed adopted by individuals and corporate bodies. Names of others on the list were not released but we sincerely hope the likes of Divine Oduduru in sprints, Blessing Oborodudu in wrestling, Aruna Quadri in table tennis, just to mention a few are on that list. The adopted athletes will be given $20,000 each for planning and this is commendable and a good way to start preparations for the games. Within a short time, Dare has made giant strides in the sports sector. He is vibrant on social media and this has yielded fruits already as a girl, an eight-year-old boxer, who was posted on Twitter got the attention of the minister and under one week, Dare visited the girl and adopted her for future development. The minister has also tried to balance his attention with other sports. We, however, emphasise that he finds a way to solve the crisis in all troubled sports federations. This is because the problems, especially that of athletics could affect the country’s participation at the Tokyo Olympic Games next year. Now that the minister has tactically started the preparation for the games, it is important to go a step further by monitoring key athletes who are medal prospects, with a view to motivating them further beyond the adoption as the games draw near. Athletes need to be pampered, they need to feel loved and so the ministry must move to fix these to get the desired results in Tokyo and beyond. At the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the NFF last week in Benin, Edo State, the opening speech of the minister which was read by the Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, was the biggest highlight of the event. The speech read in parts: “We have gone from a football loving country to a nation that needlessly squabble over football. We now showcase more of our disagreements and discordant tunes in football than the talents and skills that should be displayed in this game. “The bad image at all levels of our football, including the organizers of the domestic league cannot attract sponsorship, which is the biggest hub of business. In the eyes of the Nigerian public, the perception that NFF and Nigerian football is corrupt is rife.” Dare particularly frowned at the strings of failures in football which includes the poor run of the U-17 and U-20 teams at the World Cup, the ouster of CHAN team from the finals and the failure of the male, female teams of the country to book tickets for the football event of Tokyo Games. We make bold to say the minister must stand firm on his ideals for the sports sector without sentiments. It is also of note that businessman, Kessington Adebutu, has been approached by the minister to renovate the National Stadium in Lagos. Other notable names like Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Femi Otedola have been approached by the ministry to play a role in the revival of sports generally in the country. It is also a thing of joy that the minister wants the domestic league to be better and to be on television since the best yardstick to measure football standard in a country is the strength of the league and the development/transition of the age grade team footballers into higher levels. Within a short time, Dare has shown signs of an administrator ready to surpass what his predecessor left in the sector. The task before the minister of sports, like his colleagues in other ministry, is a marathon race and so he has to continue with the good start to enable him to take the sector to the next level.