Justice Saliu Saidu of a Federal High Court in Lagos will tomorrow hear a motion filed by a businessman, Uche Francis Ubajaka, to challenge the freezing of his account by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) over an alleged N208 million debt.  Two firms owned by Ubakaja; Grunz Link Nigeria Ltd and Pructton Associates Nigeria Ltd as well as two members of his family; Ifunaya Theresa-Anne Ubajaka and Obiorah Benedict Ubakaja, who were also affected by the freezing order have equally filed a motion to challenge it.   Justice Saidu had on 30th October, 2019, after granting an ex-parte motion filed by AMCON, ordered the freezing of the various accounts of the applicants domiciled in Access, Fidelity and Zenith banks.  Dissatisfied, Ubakaja and others filed separate motions through their lawyer, Chief Emeka Okpoko (SAN), seeking court’s order vacating and setting aside the freezing order.  In the motions, the applicants contended that the court lacks the jurisdiction to grant the freezing order against them.  They argued that the freezing order was obtained by AMCON upon concealment and misrepresentation of material facts.  According to them, Section 50 (1) of the Asset Management Corporation Act 2010 as amended in 2019 which authorizes AMCON to obtain an order of court freezing debtors accounts is not applicable to them. It was averred that the freezing order was made in breach of Sections 36 (5), 43 and 44 (2) (k) of the Constitution and is therefore void.  Particularly, in his motion, Ubajaka contended that he had challenged the purported debt in the High Court of Lagos State in suit number; LD/59/2013 and is currently a subject of appeal in Appeal No: CA/L/1232/18. In a further amended statement of claim attached to his suit at the High Court, Ubajaka averred that on August 2007, he secured a loan facility of N52.1 million from First City Monument Bank (FCMB) to purchase shares from the Nigerian Stock Exchange.  He added that he also secured another facility of N116.7 million from the bank for similar purpose on 13th March, 2008.  Ubajaka further disclosed that he provided N22.4 million as equity contribution in respect of the N52.1 million facility while he also provided N50 million as equity contribution for the N116.7 million facility.  The businessman further averred that it was agreed that he will use the money to buy shares while the bank will hold on to the shares as collateral for its investment. He added that following the agreement, he paid N1.6 million representing management, facility and processing fees.  It was further averred that the bank later appointed its sister company, Fin Bank Securities and Asset Management Ltd to manage the investment and upon the purchase of the shares, both of them took charge of everything.  The businessman averred that the act of negligence and mismanagement of his stocks by the bank and its sister company have caused him to suffer huge losses and rather than dispose off the stocks when they were expected to do so to mitigate the losses and liquidate the facility failed to do so.   He added that his inability to repay the total loan sum of N208 million was directly as a result of the act and inaction of the bank and its sister company which completely frustrated his efforts at repaying the facility.  However, AMCON is insisting that the freezing order secured on the buinessman’s account was in order.   The agency in its counter affidavit to Ubakaja’s motion said the court has the jurisdiction to make the order.