T he Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has insisted on the review of the revenue sharing formula for states to meet up with the payment of the new minimum wage and other expenditure.   Chairman of the forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi, who spoke with State House correspondents after yesterday’s closed door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, however assured that no state will pay anything less than N30,000 that was signed into law.   The position of the governors is coming barely eight days to the expiration of December 31 deadline for states to conclude discussions on consequential adjustment for the payment of the new N30,000 minimum wage.   The NGF had earlier said that there was no going back on the payment of the new minimum wage of N30,000, although it said that it may not adopt the template of the Federal Government on the consequential adjustment.   New Telegraph recalls that one of the conditions given by the governors before accepting the N30,000 new minimum wage was that the Federal Government should review the sharing formula of revenue accruing to the federation. According to Fayemi, there was no going back on the position of the governors that the revenue sharing formula should be reviewed.   His words: “A review of the revenue sharing formula is still the position of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum. We feel that it’s time for the revenue sharing formula to change and we have made a representation to the President and Commander-in-Chief.   “It is not just under President Buhari’s administration, this has been an ongoing agitation that started way back since the time of President Olusegun Obasanjo. It continued on with President Umaru Yar’Adua and President Goodluck Jonathan. So, it is not just something; that has been brought out under President Buhari.   “And you also know that there is a process to this. The process is that the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), which has the responsibility for this would do its own due diligence, consult widely with critical stakeholders and we have also made available our own representation to RMAFC.   “Every state has a representative at RMAFC as you know and only last week, RMAFC held a retreat on this and other matters and I believe they will communicate the position. Now that we have a full-fledged RMAFC in place with a chairman and other members appointed, it is our expectation that this would be taken up by RMAFC with Mr. President in a manner that we have taken it up.   “Whether that would affect negotiation for the minimum wage, I can tell you no. Minimum wage is a law. But as I have always said to you, a National Minimum Wage Act is not a general minimum wage review. They are two separate things. Governors are committed to the Minimum Wage Act and no one is going to pay anything less than N30,000.   “Some of us have started paying N30,000 as you may be aware, others want negotiations on the consequential adjustment to end before they start paying the minimum wage. And as you may be aware, what has happened so far is that the Federal Government has agreed a percentage of consequential adjustment with labour. What is happening currently in majority of our states is negotiation to agree on what that consequential adjustment would be.   “I have also said to people, who have asked me that fingers are not equal at the level of the states. So, consequential adjustment may not necessarily end up being the same, it will be different from state to state. We are not going to adopt hook line and sinker what has been adopted between the Federal Government and labour, that is for Federal Government   workers, what happens in state is a different matter. But I can assure Nigerians that no state is going to pay anything less than N30, 000.”   On the role played by the NGF in resolving the dispute between Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, the Ekiti State governor, who is a member of the committee set up to resolve the dispute, said that critical stakeholders including former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon have been working hard to resolve the matter.   “The committee has just started its work. You may recall that I have been involved in resolving the problem we have in Kano for some time. I have had cause as Chairman of the NGF of working with some key stakeholders in Kano to bring both parties together.   “And what we are doing now is essentially an expanded committee of elders chaired by a former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar and comprising very distinguished Nigerians and from our forum myself and Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katrina State are also members of the committee.   “We already had preliminary discussions with both parties and we know that they are both desirous of peace in Kano. We have also briefed Mr. President on the mission of this body. It is not a Federal Government body I must say that, but the Federal Government, that is Mr. President, is not averse to anything that could assist in ensuring that there is peace in one or the most political states in our country.   “Anything to avoid a volatile situation that may result in an unfortunate development is not wanted and it is our expectation that given the positive response from both His Excellency, the governor, Dr. Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, we will come to a resolution of the problem,” Fayemi said.   Asked whether it was possible to resolve the matter, he said: “If it is not possible, we won’t even be doing this. Everybody is concerned; Kano is the hotbed of politics in this country. Kano is our own flagship state in the All Progressives Congress (APC). But this is not a party issue; the people who are involved in this are primarily not politicians.”   On the crisis in Edo State, which involves one of NGF’s members, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Fayemi said steps are being taken to ensure that peace reigns.  According to him, “Crisis management in the NGF is not a television matter. I can assure you that we are fully aware of what is happening in Edo State and at the level of the APC Governors’ Forum, we have engaged both parties. We hosted both parties, we appealed to them and their supporters, we have taken steps and we are still taking steps to ensure that peace reigns in Edo State. But that is not the matter for the NGF, it is more of a party issue and we are involved in that at the level of the party.” 