Professor Mrs. Lilian Imuetinyan Salami is the new Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin, Edo State. She is the 10th substantive Vice Chancellor of the university and the second female Vice Chancellor since the university was founded in 1970 by the late Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia. Professor Salami joined the university in 1974 becoming the first female professor in the Faculty of Education in 2005. She was appointed as the Director of General Studies from 2009-11 and has held various positions in the university. In this interview with OJIEVA EHIOSUN, she spoke on her new appointment, the challenges, her vision and mission for the institution. Excerpts…   Professor, today is a remarkable day in your life; how do you feel becoming the second woman Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin?   I’m so happy and delighted, and I want to give glory to the Almighty God for making this dream come true. I also want to thank the immediate past Vice Chancellor for this opportunity and for the cooperation I received from him even before the whole exercise of the selection process. We meet at all times when people are not watching; he has really given me his assurance and full support. For those who think that we are not friends, I think they should change their song. I want to say that we are friends, brothers and sisters, we are one family, and I want us to remain like that. I want to say that I will build on Prof. Friday Orunmwense’s foundation so that we can make the University of Benin one of the outstanding institutions of higher learning. That, for me, is my mission and my dream, which I think will come to fruition with everyone’s hand being on the deck. You see everywhere I go I’m proud to be Unibest, so we must put everything in place to match action with words so that we can take the University of Benin to where it belongs.   In what way do you want to improve on the welfare of students?   The reason I’m here is primarily for the students. Yes, there are top challenges no doubt, but with total commitment to our duties, those challenges are surmountable. Every student on this campus came here for a purpose, so as fathers and mothers, it is our collective responsibility to see that they actualise their aims and objectives of coming to University of Benin. As you know, I have been in this system for a long time, I know the terrain, I know the challenges faced by the students, and my administration is committed to making sure that we provide a conducive environment to learning so that graduates of UNIBEN will be able to compete with their contemporaries in all disciplines across the globe. So I will listen and take their welfare problem as my priority; I will particularly look at the accommodation of students because the more you have students living on the premises, the better it will be for their academic enhancement. We also need to have an environment that is friendly; we cannot produce hoodlums, we need to have an environment that is friendly to our students so that they can learn. We need to have students that are marketable internationally so that they will be proud wherever they go to be products of this university. We are not going to rest on our laurels so as to make sure we achieve already set targets.  What would you say is your story in all of these?  Yes everyone has a story; mine started with having loving parents (Mr. Benjamin and Mrs. Alice Emovon) who believed that education was paramount and committed their very existence to ensuring that my siblings and I had access to the best that they could afford. They had tall aspirations for me, but never in my wildest dreams did I imagine that I would be where I’m today. As you know, I joined this great citadel of learning in 1994 and then becoming the first female Professor in the Faculty of Education in 2005. Thereafter I was appointed as the Director of General Studies and later chairperson University of Benin Integrated Enterprise, Director of Part- Time Programme, Member Postgraduate Board, Member Appointment &Promotion Committee, Senate Representative in Governing Council. I was also first elected Dean of the Faculty of Education among others. I stand on the wide shoulders of endearing mentors who have guided my steps, seen beyond typical stereotypes of age and gender and challenged me to stretch in ways that made me a better person.   I want to appreciate the founding fathers of this institution; they foresaw a world where its very existence had far reaching implications and impact. They understood that education is beyond what is learnt in the classroom, but what exists long after theory is forgotten. They understood that the true marks of success is our sustained ability to make our immediate and extended communities better than we met them. I’m proud to acknowledge that the University of Benin has produced several distinguished alumni who have made their mark in different relevant fields. So, to make University of Benin a better place, we must reflect on where we stand today and where we want to be tomorrow.   You said you have a seven-point agenda to take University of Benin to the promise land; what are these seven points?   My strategies for bringing this vision into fruition have been captured under the seven pillars. These are:  Increased funding and sustainable initiatives, develop environmental values and ethical orientation, ensure quality academic programmes, enhance staff and students’ welfare and security, expansion/enhancement of physical structure development and management, increase in human capital development and management and community impact initiative.   How do you feel stepping into the shoes of Professor Grace Alele-Williams as the second female Vice Chancellor of this university?   I’m indeed very graceful, honoured and privileged to be the 10th substantive Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin. Yes, I recognise the gravity of this role and do not take this great opportunity lightly, especially when called upon to fill the big shoes left by the first female Vice Chancellor of this great institution, Professor Grace Alele-Williams. What can I say again than to say ‘God I thank you greatly’. But I want to say that I will walk on the path of integrity, authenticity, equity, transparency, accountability, courage, selfless service, good working relationship and high level partnership. I will like to remind our students that the days of producing hoodlums are over. University of Benin must be ranked among the best in the world, so we must all be ready to
work.