The dream and vision of the Diocese of Lagos (Anglican Communion) to construct what it called a Centenary City in commemoration of the 100 years of existence of the church, became a reality on Monday when General T.Y. Danjuma (retd) made a whooping donation of N5 billion towards the project. Danjuma made the donation at an Award and Gala Night for the Centenary Celebration and Fundraising for the Centenary City which was held at Harbour Point, Victoria Island, Lagos.  The donation by Danjuma, which represented the highest donation at the event, will be deployed for the development of the Low Cost housing Estate in the Centenary City. Another illustrious son of the nation, Chief Tunde Afolabi also made a huge donation of N500 million towards the Youth Empowerment centre to be established in the Centenary City. Among the crème de la crème that graced the occasion with their presence were Governor of Lagos State, His Excellency , Babajide Sanwo-Olu, APC leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, His Excellency, Governor Dairus Ishaku, Governor of Taraba State and Chief Tunde & Engr (Mrs) Oluseyi Afolabi, Chairman & CEO of Amni International Petroleum Company and many other dignitaries.  The Centenary City was conceived by the Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, the Rt. Rev (Dr) Humphrey Bamisebi Olumakaiye to give an enduring legacy back to the society as the Diocese marks 100years. The city was designed to accommodate Youth Empowerment and Development Centre, St. Luke’s Global Hospital, Games Village, lowcost housing estate, Convention ground, Women Empowerment Center, Rehabilitation Center, Amusement Park, Gethsemane Garden and many more.  The Gala and Award night was one of the events put together to celebrate the 100 years of the Diocese, which will be concluded on Tuesday, December 10, with a Thanksgiving Service at the Cathedral Church of Christ Marina, Lagos.  The Award and Gala Night was also supported by the former Bishop of the diocese and his wife, the Most Revd (Dr) Ephraim Adebola and Mrs Oluranti Ademowo OON and other Bishops across the Nation. Highlights of the event include the investiture of the Grand Patron of the Centenary Celebration on the General, TY Danjuma. There were also other awards and unveiling of Heroes and Legends of Anglican Diocese of Lagos and cutting of the Centenary Cake.