…as equities market begins to benefit from OMO policy  T rading activities on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) ended the month of November 2019 on the positive trajectory with a record of N203 billion gain to close at N13.032 trillion in market capitalisation. The growth in market capitalisation during the month was due to positive sentiment by investors following the recent restrictions on Open Market Operations (OMO) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).  Available statistics to New Telegraph showed that activities on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, which opened the trading month at N12.829 trillion in market capitalisation and 26,355.35 in index points at the beginning of trading on November 1, 2019, closed the month at N13.032 trillion and 27,002.15 index points, hence has earned a gain of about N203 billion or +2.45 per cent.  The CBN recently issued a directive barring individuals and local corporate firms from investing in OMO auctions. This was contained in a circular that was released towards the end of October. The exclusion implies that only Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) can participate in OMOs, while everyone else, including non-bank financial institutions, will have to shift focus to T-bills and other investment options.  Indeed, the policy is largely in line with its drive to divert liquidity away from risk-free instruments to the real sector. The apex bank had earlier instructed banks to prevent customers with outstanding loans and recipients of intervention funds from investing in T-Bills or OMOs. With the restriction, retail and institutional actors will have to seek alternative destinations for their funds, creating extra liquidity in other assets. The restriction of key corporates, such as Pension Funds Administrators (PFAs) and insurance companies from participating in OMO is expected to free up excess investable cash for allocation to assets beyond fixed income alternatives. The experts believed that this would ultimately increase investors’ appetite for stocks, especially the fundamentally-strong equities and restore confidence in the market.  Analysts at Afrinvest Securities Limited said the recent CBN restrictions on OMO will restore confidence in the volatile stock market, considering the low stock prices. “The CBN recently restricted individuals, local corporates, and non-banking financial institutions from participating in both the primary and secondary markets for OMOs. Following this directive, we expect investors’ focus to shift towards equities due to current low prices and attractive dividend yields,” Afrinvest said. According to analysts at Cordros Capital, “In our view, the performance this week is a reaction to a limited outlet for investments given recent policy directives limiting domestic participation in the market. We expect that the market might continue to benefit over the short-term, especially in the face of lower yields in the fixed income market.”