Mercy Johnson Okojie needs no introduction in the Nigerian movie industry. Her talent and acting skills have placed her on a different level from the rest. In this interview with Ifeoma Ononye, she tells an interesting story about her growing up, why her fashion and style evolved over the years, how she picked up her skillful cooking talent, among other things    Your wedding ring is quite big and it looks like real diamonds, are they real or do you keep the real one safe at home?  It is real diamonds. They are a girl’s best friend. I know that is it bold because everywhere I go, people keep staring at my hands. I wanted it bold, so that in case you say you don’t know that I am married; you won’t say you didn’t see the ring.   You fashion and style has evolved from when you started your career in acting. There was a time you loved to flaunt your assets, and then it moved on to clothes that outlined your curves. We also started seeing you in more conservative clothes in movies because of the characters that you played; after a while you shaved off all your hair and now you are back to the elegant queen, tell us about these tremendous changes in your sense of style?   I think I matured over time and my fashion changed as my maturity base led me. One thing I would never like to do is to embarrass my kids. I will love to show up in a manner that my children will be proud to scream ‘mummy’. I like to show up in a manner that my daughter would grow up and understand the essence of my dress sense and know that you will be addressed based on how you appear. I will say that my fashion for now is just comfortable. Once I am comfortable, I am fine.   What are your beauty routines? Are their strict routines you must do every weekend or weekday to improve skin tone or maintain spotless face?   Yes there are. I tried the water therapy once when I travelled to the USA and it was great. I like the spa treatments too. Because of my work, I get stressed a whole lot so I like the massage. I do a lot of fruits and vegetable and I never forget to moisturise.   When preparing for a red carpet event, do you usually have a vision of your desired look in mind?   Not really. My team knows that I like to be comfortable. I don’t like to draw or adjust anything. My number one goal is to be comfortable which leads to freedom in whatever I am wearing. I like to be free. So my team draws up the board and I get to pick out how I want to look.   If we bump into your wardrobe, are we going to see more of jeans, shoes, handbags or dresses?   Shoes are my fashion fetish. Very high heel shoes.   Would you say that your fashion is expensive or must be expensive?   No, Not at all. I wear the easiest stuffs. Once what I am wearing is comfortable, then I am fine.   Which Nigerian fashion designers fascinate you?   I love quite a few. I love Mai Atafo. I like Sarabel couture. I like Odot, House of Koyo, Kiki Hope fashion and the one I call the queen of all Deola Sageo. I just love her humility. She is somebody we should emulate.   Over time, we noticed that you are not so much of a makeup person, why is that?   I don’t really like makeup because it does not fit into that comfort I love so much. But my team will never let me. They chain me down to make sure I get my makeup done. I don’t really like fixing nails too.   As a celebrity, many of your fans would believe that you don’t have time to cook         or do some house chores because you can easily pay someone to do them for you, are you that kind of a person?   I love to cook. I slice my ingredients and every chore before cooking. Not that I cannot get people to do them, but because I just love to cook. I like when everybody is eating and smiling. When I give my gateman food, I like the way he looks at me with admiration. It makes the whole household miss me when I am not home because they know the difference.   Your social media handle always has something about your family that warm people’s hearts. On your husband’s birthday some time ago, you kept dragging him to play and laugh and have fun, is he that quiet even at home?   We complement each other. He is very quiet and I am the troublemaker. I think he liked my craziness, even though he likes to have his space. When I try to bring craziness his way and he is not in the mood, I let him be. Naturally, my husband is a very quiet person. He does not like the clout; he does not like to talk. He can be here all week and you won’t know that he is here. There are things I would do and he would say “people actually take pictures with you that I am looking at now. They see you outside and will be praising you and all over you for photos’. I mean I like being myself around him. He likes my craziness and I like his quiet side. We   Tell us about your cooking show on African Magic…   I will start by telling you that there are two things I like to do and that is cooking and talking. Not gossip, I like to gist. And they say that the best gist comes out when you are grinding pepper. So I decided to do a talk show which is more on a family base level. The talk show is to discuss things like domestic violence, rape, abuse, how tough it is to bring up a girl child. To start the show, I decided to get some celebrities, both those who are married or who are divorced and those single, to talk to us about these issues. Most people out there believe that celebrity marriages don’t have issues, that it is all perfect. So the show is to tell people that it is not perfect. There are times I post pictures of me and my husband and people go to my page and say ‘Aww best couple’, they may not know that I may be quarrelling with him at the time. Or that I may be upset with him. But being upset with him, does not mean that I don’t love him anymore. Putting my family on social media is celebrating us while putting our issues in the house. The show is to tell people that we celebrities have out sad times and happy times too like every other normal people. Also, that why you see us here is because we have learned to tackle our issues and still come out stronger. That is what Mercy’s Menu is all about. In the cooking segment of the show, we invent recipes. We will be coming out with our own recipe book. People are afraid of taking risks and the show will show people new ideas about cooking that are interesting. I once hosted my brother in law and his family to breakfast at my place. One of the elderly men was thrilled at the setting and the food. He said that he was surprised that I could do all these considering how famous I am on television and movies. Everything I learn from mingling with top chefs on the show, I replicate in my home.   Your cooking skills, would you give the credit to your mum for bringing you up well?   I was not very close to my mum. I am very upset with myself because she is late now. I really did not learn all the cooking skills from home. The first time that I met my husband, I was asked to cook. They went to the market and got all the ingredients and I called my sister, Rita to ask her the easiest soup to cook. She told me Egwusi and explained how to prepare it. I made the soup and it came out well. I am that girl that did not learn it all from back home, but I kept telling myself things that are good that I need to learn and improve on and that is how I got to where I am today.   The times you act the village girl parts, like in the comedy movie Dumebi, how do you put yourself into those kind of character?   I get some of these characters from places I visit and people I see on the streets. When a script comes, I remember those characters that I have seen somewhere before and I play that person. For example, before I shot the movie Baby Oku, I was pregnant with Purity and we were at the airport and we came across a quiet man that obviously married a wahala woman. They were just beside us and then the custom man just brought out all of the woman’s bags, searched and seized her garri and then tells her to pack her things back. The woman just stood up and was glaring at the custom officer. Then the husband now told the woman, ‘honey’ biko pack the bag in Igbo and the woman replied ‘ona akorum buruya’, ‘ona akorum nonsense! O mu ka ina igwa?’ as in ‘see how he is asking me to carry it. Telling me nonsense, it is me you are talking to? The husband quietly ignored her and packed the bag. When I got to the US, I got a script to play something so close to that woman’s character and I said, thank you Lord. I bet if that woman sees that movie, she will say, ‘this Mercy Johnson is crazy’.   Growing up, would you say you had an interesting childhood?   Yes I did. I grew up in the barracks. It is always interesting. There is always a drama going on.   Now that you are star, are there programs you do to give back to the society, especially in Kogi state where you come from?   I have one of the oldest Foundations in Nigeria which is the Mercy Johnson Foundation for Children and Mercy Johnson Foundation for Women. We stop singing our praises because we have made that impact. Whether we post what we do or not, what we do is evident. The foundation is 10 years now and we are still doing what we love which is take care of widows and less privileged children. My husband also partners with me in the projects.     