    Learner drivers are said to have contributed immensely to driving deaths in the country in recent times. Several other people have also died every day due to lack of adherence to driving rules. Distraction while driving, which encompasses any action that takes a driver’s eyes off the road, especially cell phones, has equally fueled driving deaths. OLUWATONI OLUWASA NYA, who has been tracking this trend   For many, owning a smartphone is a rite of passage. Today’s humans have grown up with technology, and the digital world has become a necessity and a given. Phones and devices follow us everywhere, and, unfortunately, their presence even has taken a front seat in the car.  So, while distractions behind the wheel can be attributed to any action that displaces the importance of controlling the vehicle, the presence of smartphones has added in no small way to driving deaths, other fatalities, as well as crashes on the road. Smartphones are deadly when used behind the wheel, and, for new drivers, their lure is even more worrisome. For a generation of youths, who have never known a world without the internet, loosening the grip of the device that holds so much relevance over their lives amounts to digital detox. A few months ago, a middle-age woman from one of the states in the South-West died in a highway crash.  According to reports, the driver rammed into a trailer on a highway.  The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) was quoted to have said that sending text messages played a role. Though the message was not sent, it allegedly preceded the crash that caused her death. Incidentally, the intended recipient of the message was the driver’s sister. Not too long ago, another driver from the South Eastern part of the country also reportedly died after he allegedly was distracted by an incoming call while driving. He rammed into a truck. In response to the rising injury and death toll across the country, the FRSC officials are said to be clamping down on distracted drivers and are trying to enforce stricter standards on the road, especially for newly licenced drivers.  However, many have said that discouraging and preventing drivers from using their phones behind the wheel require education about the risks of distraction. Others have also suggested engaging the drivers in an honest dialogue about rules while driving on the road. Many have been hospitalised after they were in a car crash caused by illicit drug use and speeding. Drugged driving is driving under the influence of alcohol, over-the-counter medications, prescription drugs, or illegal drugs. Drugs, including marijuana, affect the way people drive.  This puts them, their passengers, and other drivers on the road at risk. Drugs, according to experts, can alter one’s perception, attention, balance, coordination, reaction time, and the other skills needed to stay alert and safe. In recent times, many drivers killed in vehicle accidents were said to have tested positive for at least one drug or the other. Using any mind-altering drug makes it unsafe to drive a vehicle, just like driving after drinking alcohol.  An increasing number of drivers involved in fatal crashes tested positive for drugs, especially opioids and marijuana, according to reports. But some have cautioned that it was difficult to fully understand the extent to which “drugged driving” is becoming a problem in the country. Dr. Nwandu Uwabundu of Diamond Specialist Hospital, Lagos, said: “Drugs can impair and drug-impaired drivers can crash. But it’s impossible to understand the full scope of the drugged driving problem because many drivers, who were arrested or involved in crashes, even those who were killed, were not tested for drugs. Drivers who are drug-positive may not necessarily be weakened.”  However, getting behind the wheel of a vehicle, car, truck, motorcycle or any other motorised vehicle after consuming alcohol is a serious crime. Drinking and driving is sometimes called driving under the influence of alcohol or driving while intoxicated.  A small amount of alcohol according to FRSC, can lead to harmful situations. Some drivers, the commission said, might not even show warning signs of being under the influence, but that doesn’t mean it’s any less dangerous. “It’s important to remember that any form of drinking and driving is illegal and can come with strict punishment,” the commission further said.  The largest group at risk for drinking and driving, medical doctors said, were those who struggle with an alcohol use disorder. “This means they consume a large amount of alcohol in a short period of time, putting them at risk for harmful side effects. It takes roughly 30 minutes to two hours for alcohol to be absorbed into one’s bloodstream. During this time, their breathing may slow down and their cognitive skills may be delayed. Because of this, it is always dangerous to drink and drive,” an anonymous expert said.  It was a Saturday morning, a middleage man, who gave his name only as Steven, was on his way back to Benin to visit his parents and was only 20 minutes into a three-hour journey. It happened at a roundabout: the other driver, identified simply as Idemudia, was on the left-hand lane and Oluwasanya was on the righthand lane. Both were going around the roundabout.  Idemudia lost control and slid into Oluwasanya’s car, leaving it with a huge dent along the driver’s side doors as well as damage to the framework. Luckily, no one was. Oluwasanya said: “Upon being struck, because it was such a shock I slammed on my brakes and checked my mirrors to see who had hit me and saw that the other driver had completely spun out of control, luckily he didn’t hit anyone else. “I got out of my car as he pulled up behind me and immediately apologised, and said it was his fault. We pulled into a quieter road so that we could exchange details of our insurance companies. As both cars were working, we exchanged phone numbers and went our separate ways.  “I immediately called my insurance company to get advice on what to do as I had never been involved in an accident before, and I was told to go home and have a cup of tea as I was probably in shock. Before I went back to my house, I called my parents to tell them I would be late because someone used his vehicle to ram into mine, and both of them were immediately panicking and despite being two and a half hours away. “When I got home, I heeded the advice I was given and called my insurance company again and we went through all the details of the other driver. At that point, the other driver hadn’t officially accepted fault yet, but luckily after about a week his insurance company contacted   me and told me that the firm would ensure my car is repaired. I also had the benefit of legal protection.  So, I felt completely safe and covered should anything go wrong. About a week and a half after the accident, a hire car was delivered to me and my car was picked up for repairs. “Although there was no immediate injury, I did suffer from stiffness and pains in my neck and back, at which point I was advised to see a physiotherapist. In my first appointment, it really helped with the movement in my neck (I didn’t realise how restricted my movements were until after that). But I felt much better after physio. It just goes to show that injuries aren’t always apparent in the first instance.  “After the accident, my confidence while driving did seem to dip, and is still at bit low, which is a shame because I drive a lot for both personal and work reasons (what makes my nerves peak while driving for work as well is that I use my boss’ super expensive, very powerful car). I also have flashback every now and then while on a roundabout, it feels almost the same as when something makes you jump and you have a surge of adrenaline, like a mild fright and there is about a second where all I can see is where I was when the other car crashed into me, which caused me to gasp a little and grip the steering wheel really tight.”  On June 22, 2017, the Abia State Police Command, reportedly launched investigation into the killing of three children of a Pentecostal church located at 103, Omuma Road, Aba.  Also, a female learner driving a Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) was said to have on that fateful Sunday crushed three kids to death on the premises of the church. The pastor of the church said he did not know exactly what happened but that when “I rushed to the scene, I learnt that a woman learning to drive had, while trying to negotiate the bend where the church is, lost control and with the speed she was driving, plunged into the premises where children were sitting and crushed three of them to death.”    There was also a troubling video released sometimes in 2018, showing women who got killed in a tragic accident while recording a video of themselves. In the video, three women were seen driving on a freeway and singing while looking into the camera and the female driver took her eyes of the road multiple times to look into the camera.  They were singing and smiling one minute, and the next, they crashed. The crash, which occurred on September 2, was believed to have been caused by the fact that they were taking selfie rather than concentrating on the driving. They were driving on the highway when their vehicle skidded into the oncoming lane and crashed into a semi-truck. All three passengers in the car died on the spot because of the impact.  According to information gathered, the driver lost control of the vehicle, rolled into the opposite lane and was hit by an 18-wheeler truck. The video of the occupants moments before the fatal crash was posted on the internet. It was not known if they streamed it live or if someone recovered the video from his phone and uploaded it after the crash.  A 52-year-old woman, identified only as Kehinde, also got herself into trouble for driving with a learner’s permit without an experienced driver by his side as stipulated by the law. While on a cruise, he reportedly lost control and crushed a youth corps member to death. He was subsequently arraigned before an Abeokuta Magistrate’s Court for allegedly driving against laid down rules. Kehinde was alleged to have sped dangerously as a “learner” with a permit, but failed to do so in company with a licenced driver beside her as stipulated by the law. In his judgement, the Magistrate, Matins Akinyemi, treated the case as manslaughter and not murder because, according to him, there was no motive behind the offence.   He said: “It is a very sad thing, particularly for the family of the boy, who would have been done with his service in a couple of months.”  Parking a vehicle in the middle of the road just to change a flat tyre or because of engine trouble is among the causes of road traffic crashes, especially at night or around a sharp bend or close to the crest of a hill where the vehicle cannot be seen far off by other road users. Some drivers of broken down vehicles do not give adequate warning signs to approaching vehicles and as such, others ram into these vehicles. In some cases hazardous obstacles placed on the road to warn or divert traffic are left behind when the vehicles had moved on after repairs.  This endangers other road users and may result in crashes. Taiwo Oluwasanya, an employee of one of the new generation banks in Lagos, who has been driving since 1993, admitted that negligence on the part of drivers could actually cause accidents. He said: “I will say that carelessness and lack of concentration on the part of the driver could be deadly. There is another, which is overconfidence.  When I started driving, I was a little overconfident; this led to me hitting a passerby. I had to pay dearly for it by paying the hospital bill and I was so scared that I had killed someone. I think that taught me a great lesson.  “What I know is that the majority of road users don’t even have knowledge of driving rules. They just drive and if you don’t have knowledge about something, there is the tendency that you are going to be doing that thing consciously or deliberately whereas you don’t even know that it is wrong.  So, I think the FRSC officials have to do more on this, especially to the illiterate drivers, who cannot read and write. “Although some people just like to do things as long as it’s convenient for them,   it’s only enforcement that makes people to obey the rules. Human beings like to do whatever they want to, provided it’s convenient for them to do so. I think enforcement of policies is necessary. Because many are not conscious of other users of the roads, they become selfish and think only about themselves alone.” Omotayo Ibrahim, an employee of Guaranty Trust Bank, branch Akoka, also had an accident two years ago.  “I was with my uncle in the car and unfortunately my uncle lost control and hit another car. I cannot tell what actually made him to lose concentration. It was so sudden. As for driving rules, I think many people are guilty of this, especially receiving phone calls while driving. It’s very dangerous and I’m always scared if someone is calling and driving because in my short period of driving, the thing that scares me most is losing control,” Ibrahim said.  However, the relevant traffic regulation such as the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2012, Regulations 45(2),52(1)and(2),50(1)and45(3)(e) provide for an applicant for the driving licence to meet the following conditions: be 18 years and above, be physically and mentally fit, pass a driving test and pay the prescribed fee.  The law has also made special provision for age limit of applicants for commercial or professional driving licence (not below the age of 26-Regulation 45(4)). After these, such an applicant will then qualify for a driver’s licence valid for three years. In the face of the spate of road crashes in the country and the need to conceptualise new ideas in keeping within global best practice, the FRSC through the driving school standardisation programme made it mandatory for fresh applicants to attend certified and approved driving school.  Specifically, the National Road Traffic Regulations 2004 mandates all learner drivers to observe the following rules: attend a certified and approved driving school as a prerequisite to obtaining a fresh driving licence. As part of the strategy to improve the process, the rule was amended specifically with respect to fresh applicants.  The new rule requires applicants obtaining a driving licence for the first time must do the following: attend a training at FRSC accredited driving school for at least 26 working days, after which they will be presented by the driving school to the Vehicle Inspection Officer/Road Traffic Officers for a driving test. Applicants must pass the driving test and obtain a certificate of proficiency for the new licence from the VIO.  Meanwhile, while still learning, the learner driver must display an ‘L’-plate for learner, which is a square plate bearing a letter ‘L’ for learner, which must be affixed to the front and back of a vehicle in many countries, if the driver is a learner under instruction or a motorcycle rider with provisional entitlement to ride restricted motorcycles. What this means is that this rule is a universal convention with slight variations from country to country.  In the case of Nigeria, Section 27, Subsections 1-3 of the National Road Traffic Regulations earlier cited spells out the details as applicable to learner drivers.