In this analysis, IGBEAKU ORJI looks at the emergence of former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, as Senator-elect for Abia North Senatorial District and its possible impact on the development of the zone  When Longfellow said, “Heights by great men attained and kept were not by sudden flight, but while their fellows slept toiled upward in the night,” he captured the nuance of victory succinctly. His compatriot, William Shakespeare, painted the reverse thus: “Cowards die many times before their death, the valiant never taste of death but once.”  My analysis of the events leading to the 2019 election late last year was presciently replayed at the Abia North election battle. Many would say Kalu got the victory because of the advantages of being in the ruling party and being a man of means. Far from these. Kalu got the victory by sheer grit and guts. Grit and guts are the track on which victory travels. By the preparations-mobilization, leaving nothing to chance, personally leading his campaign in all the books and crannies of the zone, Kalu demonstrated resilience, commitment and focus.  He had shot at the red chamber a record three times against formidable odds. But as a man not given to quit easily in any cause he believes Kalu held tenaciously, horned his tools and got better equipped for the epic battle. The trajectory of the victory was set since 2015 when he narrowly lost to the questionable process.  Today, the forces in contention are no less formidable. To unseat a sitting senator in a state ruled by his party is not a tea party. In an election adjudged free, fair and transparent by local and international observers Kalu defeated incumbent Senator Mao Ohuabunwa and Gab Igboko, a serving commissioner in their home local governments, Arochukwu. In like manner, he defeated the incumbent deputy Governor, Ude Oko Chukwu, in Ohafia generally and Nkporo in particular and the Commissioners for Information, John Okiyi Kalu and Attorney General, Ume Kalu and also the Deputy Chief of Staff, Ukpai Agwu Ukpai.  He also beat the SSG, Dr. Eme Okoro and two other commissioners to pick the vital victory in Bende Local Government Area. Recall that at the eve of the rescheduled elections, Senator Mao Ohuabunwa addressed the press, alleging that Kalu was boasting that he would use federal might and security agencies to defeat him.  It was a pitiable spectacle as some have described it as a case of cowards dying many times before their death. One wonders what a man going to war with another is expected to do in the circumstance. Was he not supposed to take advantage of the arsenal at his disposal? Is propaganda no longer part of war strategy? Does it amount to crime for someone to disclose his lawful strategy in a contest? I said in my analysis that 2015 was the best outing for All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state.  Then APGA was the only credible opposition because the All Progressives Congress (APC) then was torn apart by leadership crisis. Even at that the impressive performance of APGA at the time owed largely to the determination of the people to get rid of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In most of the places APGA won in 2015 incontrovertibly, the people stood and insisted that the votes be counted and announced, giving no room for manipulation.  Now with the emergence of the APC and in particular, the presence of a leader like Kalu, a galvanizing force, who rallied his allies, supporters, admirers and beneficiaries during his era as governor of the state, the game changed. Now APGA is almost missing. The same scenario is likely going to play out in the next elections, namely, the governorship and House of Assembly. The lackluster performance of the current government has made the opposition more popular. It is difficult to convince people from empirical evidence to the contrary. You may deploy resources and institutions at your disposal to sway people’s opinions and sometimes steer them from a clear cause of action, but you cannot make them blind to the reality on ground.  The Returning Officer of Abia North Collation Center, Ohafia, Dr. Charles Anumudu, gave the breakdown in the five local government areas that make up Abia North as follows:  Kalu polled a total of 31,203 to beat his closest rival, incumbent senator and PDP candidate, Mao Ohuabunwa, 20,801 and David Gobi Omaha Boardex at 11,410. Kalu won convincingly in four of the five local government areas that make up the Abia North zone including Arochukwu, the PDP candidates home local government, with 1166 to PDP, 843; Ohafia, 5523 to PDP, 4861; Isuikwuato, 8317 to PDP, 4609; Bende, Kalu’s home local government, 10701 to PDP, 4875. It was only at Umunneochi local government that PDP had 5613 against APC, 5496. Reacting to the victory, in a statement issued by his PA Kunle Oyewumi, the Abia APC leader described it as a testament to the robust goodwill he (Kalu) enjoys among the electorate. While expressing gratitude to Nigerians for their support before, during and after the poll, Kalu promised to use the mandate to sustain his philanthropic gestures across the country. According to him, the people of Abia North will enjoy qualitative, responsive and robust representation during his stint as senator representing Abia North senatorial zone. The former governor urged his co-contestants in other political parties to join hands with him in advancing the cause of Abia North Senatorial zone. “The people of Abia North senatorial zone came out en-masse to cast their votes for President Muhammadu Buhari, my good self and other APC candidates in the presidential and national assembly elections. I salute the courage, boldness and patriotism displayed by the electorate in choosing their preferred candidates. “The people of Abia North senatorial zone had been deprived of qualitative representation for many years. I will use my network of contacts and political dexterity to uplift our communities. The challenges facing our people have been diligently articulated with possible solutions highlighted. “Having served in different capacities in the public sector, I will bring to bear my experience in discharging my duties. Politics is not a do-or-die affair and as such I will adopt as always, an all-inclusive and participatory approach in my legislative responsibilities.” The former governor, while commending the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, the media, international and local observers, civil society organizations and other stakeholders for ensuring a hitch-free and credible poll, promised to live up to expectations. Kalu equally applauded chieftains and members of the APC for demonstrating maturity despite the provocation and intimidation by the PDP, stressing that the ideals of the APC are based on genuine leadership and good governance. The Senator-elect also used the opportunity to call on the electorate to vote for Chief Uche Ogah and other candidates of the APC in the March 9 Governorship and House of Assembly elections. Kalu’s influence, unarguably, gave the APC House of Representatives candidate for Bende Federal Constituency, Ben Kalu, victory as well as President Muhammadu Buhari in his local government. Also, in Isuikwuato/Umunneochi, the APC candidate, Nkiruka Onyejeocha, has picked the House of Representatives seat. The Arochukwu/Ohafia seat logjam, it is hoped, will be resolved in favour of the APC candidate, Nnamdi Iro Orji.