Network on Police Reforms in Nigeria (NOPRIN) has called on the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, to ensure arrest of people behind the stripping of some women.
The call followed the emergence of four different videos on the internet, showing women stripped and dehumanised for allegedly committing one crime or the other.  Speaking yesterday at Ikeja, the National Coordinator of NOPRIN, Mr. Okechukwu Nwanguma, applauded the IG for arresting perpetrators in two of the videos. He also urged Adamu to do more.
The four videos had different women, but each showed same action; women stripped and tortured. Incidents in three of the videos are believed to have occurred in Edo State, while the fourth is believed to have occurred in Delta State.  One of the videos was that of a lady identified Favour Friday. She was stripped while pepper was inserted into her private parts for allegedly stealing a phone. The second video showed a lady stripped, with her hands tied behind her back. She was also accused of stealing a phone. She was beaten, with her breasts repeatedly slapped. Shockingly, other women joined in torturing and mocking her. The third was of a woman who allegedly stole a child. Rather than hand her over the police, she was stripped and beaten.
The fourth was of a woman, later alleged to be mentally unstable, who was stripped while her hands and legs were tied for insulting a politician.
Nwanguma said that cases of women being debased were on the increased.  He said: “In recent times, we have watched with outrage viral videos of women stripped, publicly paraded and subjected to dehumanising and brutal treatment while being video recorded.  “One of such videos of this barbaric action was about a young woman in Edo accused of stealing a phone. She was stripped, hands tied, paraded and beaten by a gang of men with some women in the crowd watching, cheering and joining in condemning the young woman.  “A more recent one in Delta State was about a woman similarly tied hands and legs, publicly paraded and viciously attacked, slapped, kicked, punched and hit with wooden objects. This was on the orders of the SSA to the Delta State governor who alleged that the woman ‘disrespected’ him.
“Again, women were in the crowd cheering as their fellow woman was being dehumanised. This action amounts to sexual violence and torture. It’s an act of discrimination based on gender and reflects the prevalent traditional prejudice that discriminates against women, regards them as inferior and seeks to subjugate them. These acts of barbarism must be punished and deterred.”  Nwanguma commended the IG for his prompt response in ordering the arrest and persecution of perpetrators in at least two of the cases.
“This is important to send a clear message to the perpetrators and others alike, that it is not just barbaric but also a crime for people to take laws into their hands in such or any other manner,” he added.
According to him, Nigerians live or ought to be living in a civilised and democratic society.  Democracy, he said, was protected by the rule of law and any act which “undermines the rule of law threatens democracy”.
He added that such actions against women drag the Nigerian society back to the Stone Age. ...victim threatened with live snake to confess     An Edo State High Court sitting in Benin, yesterday remanded three men I prison custody for allegedly stripping a lady, Favour Ada Friday, over a missing phone and inserting pepper into her private parts. The accused are the head of vigilance… In "Metro and Crime" Police said yesterday that they had apprehended six men who stripped a 24-year-old lady and rubbed pepper into her private parts for allegedly stealing a phone. This was even as reports emerged that the incident leading to the violent assault on the lady had to do with sexual nature. The… In "Metro and Crime" Twenty-four-year-old Miss Favour Friday has finally decided to open up on how she was caught in the web of the men who pinned her down and inserted pepper into her private parts. Favour, who is from Rivers State, said she had been living in Benin since 2018. She disclosed that… In "Metro and Crime"