Former Lagos State governor and national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, declared that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has the constitutional powers to cancel and postpone elections. Tinubu also said that the nation’s constitution stipulated that campaigns for elections should end 24 hours to the Election Day. Speaking to journalists on the sidelines of the APC national caucus in Abuja, Tinubu said that it was wrong for INEC, having postponed the elections for one week, to insist that campaigns had stopped. The former Lagos State Governor said that the adversity that comes with the postponement of elections could be converted to prosperity. He said: “By law, we should continue to energise our people; it depends on our resources, because the Electoral Act allows us to stop campaigning only 24 hours before the actual election. “And once you change the date to February 23, you have given us the opening to campaign and energise. If you have a garden and you don’t nourish it with water, the grass will remain dormant; we don’t want our party to remain dormant. “It is the ability of leadership to convert adversity to opportunity and prosperity and that’s what we must do.” Speaking on whether the postponement of the elections would not cast doubt on the credibility of INEC, he said: “It depends on how it is handled and the process; how the process is managed. You can convert a crisis situation or adversity to an opportunity and progress. “The INEC, under the law, they are empowered to postpone, cancel and do whatever is necessary to ensure free and fair election. No party, anger, disappointment can reverse that. So, we are ready for February 23.” On the statement made by President Muhammadu Buhari that he had given orders to the security operatives to shoot any person that tries to hijack ballot box during elections, the former governor said that the President never made such a comment at the meeting. According to him, “I was in that meeting; the president was just reinforcing the fact that if you are out there snatching ballot boxes, and causing destructions, you are at risk of your own life. “Whatever happens to you; no president will give an order that his own citizens should be shot summarily, No! No, it’s okay, emotions are running high these days. Any individual, including myself, can be misinterpreted. “These are not his words; he is a law abiding person and he understands categorically and clearly what rule of law is and the lives of individual citizens that he is in that office to protect. “Now, let me run this; he has been fighting Boko Haram, kidnappers and all these before this election, did you hear him asking them to be shot and executed summarily?” President Buhari had, in his remarks at the caucus meeting, said: “I have directed the police and the military to be ruthless. I am going to warn anybody who thinks he has enough influence in his locality to lead a body of thugs to snatch boxes or to disturb the voting system, he would do it at the expense of his life.”