Dr. Olajimi Sodipo is a Consultant Family and Sexual Assault Physician at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASTH), Ikeja. In this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, he speaks about the prevalence of child molestation and efforts being made to reduce it to barest minimum  How prevalent is child sexual abuse in recent times?
What we have noticed is that there has been a progressive increase in the number of reported cases of sexual abuse among children. And you know that usually, when we are talking about children, people have different age groups in mind but trust us medical doctors to know that in the eyes of the law, for example Lagos State law, when we are talking about a child, we are talking about somebody less than 18 years old. And when there is sexual abuse or any form of sexual assault, we term that defilement, while if the person is more than 18 years, we term that as rape. But if we are to use a younger age cut off of about 13 years of age, what you will see is that there is increase in number of people they are presenting to the hospital and we have a Sexual Assault Health Center in Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), which is known as the Mirabel Center. And that has helped us to be able to have a one-stop shop where people present themselves for treatment and it has helped us to be able to gather data. And from the data we have, what we saw is that among all the age groups that were presented to the center-from children to adult, the highest privilege was seen in children below the age of 13 year and it is even more worrisome, because you will see that we have a very high number of people they are presenting between the ages of one years and five years. So it is a very big problem in the society and I think a lot is needed to be done about it. What we have seen in the past is that everybody has believed that when you are talking about a perpetrator of sexual assault, you are actually talking about some unknown person, and some criminals that nobody can actually point to. Maybe some armed robbers but we have seen right now among the data that we are getting, that over 75 per cent of people that are presenting themselves to the centre know the person that is actually assaulting them. That means that they could identify that person from within the community. It is not somebody that came from outside, it is someone that people can just leave their children with and say this is a guardian. This looks like a responsible person in the society, ‘help me take care of my children.’ And incidentally out of 70 per cent of what we have seen, about 15 per cent are actually assaulted by family members. And when we talk about family members, of course, that will include fathers, uncles- you know close relatives- people that stay in the same house with them, and that is where we are having a very big challenge. This is because we are seeing cases of sexual assaults by close relatives; by people that are known to the survivors. Sometimes, it also makes the reporting and subsequent prosecution of these perpetrators difficult because, yes initially, there may be a report but over time there is a lot of pressure from the family, like, Oh, don’t give the family a bad name. This person probably made a mistake, and more like that. You have a situation where maybe an uncle sexually assaulted a child and maybe it causes problem between the father, mother and every other extended members of the family. So it is a very big problem. I know we have seen a number of cases of children that have actually been assaulted by their fathers. Unfortunately, this is just a tip of the iceberg because these are cases that have been reported before we had the Mirabel Center and before Lagos State started taking sexual assault as a very strong policy. I am sure we have had thousands of cases but many of them went unreported because nobody was ready to go through the stress related with having to go to the hospital and report process. But I think we have been seeing an increase, number because with the new policy, anybody that is sexually assaulted doesn’t need to go to the hospital and join the queue as every other person that came for malaria and other type of treatment. No they are now designating as a special situation. Of course other things like treatments that people needed to pay for in the past are now made free.
In fact, we have seen a situation whereby it was a family member and such people have been subsequently taken care of by the government. So I think those are some of the things that have allowed for increased reporting but it is a very serious problem in the society. What are the likely psychological/ medical effects on these children?
Well, when we look at the effect of the sexual assault holistically, we are going to look at it psychologically or let’s say short term and the long term effects. Of course, the short term effects include physical injury that may occur at that time. Like when a 50 year old man is assaulting a five-year-old child, you can imagine the injury. Those are the kind of injuries we are talking about. Secondly, we have the case of sexually transmitted diseases such as HIV, Hepatitis, Chlamydia and Gonorrhea are usually transmitted. Those things can be transmitted and of course they can also be treated. We also have immediate psychological problems. Could you give some instances?
A child or somebody in the community was sexually assaulted and it became a case whereby every other member of the community is aware of. Of course there is a stigma associated with that family. We have a situation where a family is living in a building and maybe it is the landlord who is involved or the landlord’s child or somebody. You know that person may have to leave that place. So you have some of those things that some of the short term effect even psychological. But on the long term, we also have bigger problems because the misconception that we have over time is that if a child is sexually assaulted, especially if she is a very young child, nothing can happen, the child cannot remember, treating it as a family affair. What we are seeing and what literature has told us is that, a number of times, it has a very gross psychological effect on the child in a long term. There are risks of having depression, risks of having post-traumatic stress disorder, risks of having relationships problems. For example, young ladies have challenges of interacting with men in future. We have seen a severe case where a woman actually got married and she couldn’t have sexual relations with her husband. It took a lot of counseling for them to now finally come out. The incident actually happened about 20 years ago and she was raped. That was what triggered up her perception towards having sexual relationship even with her husband. So those are some of the psychological effects.
Worse off is that some of them have even committed suicide especially now that we have issue of gang rape. We have an 18 year old or 17 year old girl that was gang-raped. She felt ridiculed, it would seem normal for her to want to commit suicide. Of course, even there are long term physical effects. There was a case recently in Edo State where a child was serially raped and she had developed Visco Virginal Fistula, (VVF). We have many people that would have gotten some forms of infections that are not properly treated and they developed infertility. Those are some of the long term medical side effects that occur. And again, because of the stigma attached, many people don’t present themselves to the hospital when these things happen, they just go probably take some drugs and they feel they have been treated but that is not the case.
We have even seen cases of people getting pregnant for the person that sexually assaulted them. So what happens? You now have a dysfunctional family; you have a situation where the father impregnated the daughter. What happens? What kind of family are you going to call them? What now happens to that child? Will that child be aborted? Under the Nigeria law, you can’t abort such a child. There is no place for such in the Nigerian law. Therefore, it creates plenty problems. Many of such victims have had to drop out of school. So how has Lagos State government been responding to this?
That is why the Lagos State Government has been taking it as a very serious issue. Then we have the Domestic Sexual Violence Response Team, very efficient and luckily, Lagos has been very fortunate with the first sexual assault health centre in Nigeria, I think in West Africa is the Mirabel Centre which was actually opened at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, (LASUTH). It was opened about five years ago (2013) and going to six years now. We have seen over 5,000 clients and that is just scratching tip of the head. Because year on year, there has been increase in the number of people presenting for the past themselves; maybe you have one client a day, four clients a week but now we are seeing as high as over 20 clients a week. We are seeing as high as over five or seven clients a day, especially when you have one perpetrator that have been serially sexually assaulting children. There have been so many cases especially when you have care givers, teachers, maybe clerics who have access to children; people that cannot be suspected, as such, they has been enjoying unhindered channel of doing it over time. We got one case you just see that we open a Pandora box that is over 20 clients. So it is a very serious case. How can we bring this to barest minimum using advocacy, the law and all?
I think that is what we really need to focus on because medical and even the legal way can never solve the problem. The damage has already been done! What we really need to do is to go back to the community and the first thing is education which is what we are already doing. Number one, many people don’t know about sexual assault. So many people don’t know that having sexual relations with somebody below 18 is an offence in the eyes of the law in Lagos State. And we need the media to actually help us in collaboration with the government to educate people in the community.
We have gotten to the point where the law actually state that if you are aware that sexuals assault is going on and you did not say anything concerning it, you are as guilty as the person committing that sexual assault. So we have seen situation where somebody knows that somebody is sexually assaulting somebody, you know even in some community, you will hear a situation where they will say that man is always bringing small girls to the house. You know that those girls are under 18; you know they are six- years-old, you know they are 12 years old. But nobody does anything; they look at it as a situation between an adult and not between an adult and a child. So we need to educate the public, we need to make them know that (1) certain things are not right for whatever reason and (2) we need to eradicate this issue of using poverty as an excuse, to allow those things to continue going on.
And I will give you some examples. A case happened where the father is aware that his child is sexually assaulted. He went to report the case but somebody says ‘I will give you some money so that you can treat your child.’ And because of that money he collected, he forgot about the case. Now that perpetrator goes on to sexually assault other children and the problem continues. So we need to talk to the community and let them know that some things are not right, you can’t just forget about it.’ You can’t solve it in a communion; because for every child that is sexually assaulted, it will probably destroy the family. Eventually, that child is going to grow up with some psychological problems if not properly managed. And even if the perpetrator is arrested and goes to jail for life, the damage has already been done. So this is one of the clear-cut cases where we say prevention is better than cure and that is why we need to go into the community to prevent it. How should the survivors face their immediate society attack and how can they regain self confidence?
Well, it is a difficult situation, but as long as people are empowered to know the effect of what has happened on their children, they will be ready to speak out. Remember the issue of the church and young boys that were sexually assaulted? Of course, then there was an issue of cover up, there was an issue of ‘don’t allow this issue to destroy the church.’ But now, they have seen that many people that were affected then, mostly children who were sexually assaulted have developed psychological problems now. That is why I said we need to reach out to religious leaders. This issue of cover-up must stop, nobody is above the law. There is nowhere in the Constitution and law that says if you are a religious leader, you are above the law. But of course we need people to speak. It is easier if that community, people within that congregation be it a Muslim or Christian congregation, are able to speak out and are able to discourage it. That way, it becomes something that is not allowed and when something is not allowed you will notice that people will avoid it. But once it is tolerated for whatever reason, it continues.
Traditionally everybody has felt comfortable leaving his children with religious leaders; many people send their children to religious schools. Even after they have gone to their conventional schools, they will say ‘go and learn either at Sunday schools or Islamic schools. Everybody feels that a religious leader is there to protect the children. So that person has a lot of access to the children. When that person ironically becomes a perpetrator, it becomes a problem. That is why as part of our training, we suspect that anyone can be a perpetrator. How can survivors be treated without destroying evidence?
I think in this regard, first and foremost, we refer to somebody that is sexually assaulted as a survivor, as a client so that we don’t further stigmatise them. But I think speaking for Lagos State, a lot of good work has been done in collaboration between the police and the medical personnel. A lot has been invested in training. As I speak to you now, I have been involved in series of training with the police. We started with training on attitudinal change and so in most police stations now, we have what you call the Family Support Unit; we have what you call gender unit. These are people that have been specially trained to be able to know how to approach a client.