Nigeria is a strong force in age grade football at global level but over the years the country has been unable to translate this to the senior level. The best effort was the feat achieved by the golden generation of Eagles in 1994 when the Super Eagles were named as the 5th best team in the world and also the most entertaining team. Stephen Keshi, Emmanuel Amuneke, Samson Siasia, Celestine Babayaro, Alloy Agu and Mutiu Adepoju were some of the products of age grade football that contributed greatly to the success of the ’94 team that won the Nations Cup in Tunisia and took the world by storm at the World Cup in USA that same year. However, the objective of the FIFA for age grade tournaments is secondary in Nigeria and most African countries. FIFA’s objective is to provide a template for a smooth transition into the senior cadre of the respective age categories. For example, the U-17 team players should graduate to the U-20 cadre while U-20 should move to U-23 with ease and also to the Super Eagles. FIFA’s objective works well in Europe and other parts but not so in Nigeria. Ronaldinho, Messi, Neymar, Isco, De Gea, Hazard are some of the top players who excelled at age-grade level and transited into the senior team in style. Top junior players in the country’s age-grade football history like Godwin Okpara, Bawa Abdulahi, Jimoh Balogun, Philip Osondu, Isaac Success, Chris Ohenhen, Chris Nwosu, Dimeji Lawal, Nosa Osadolor, Adeolu Adekola, Cristansus Macaulay, Kelechi Iheanacho and Victor Osihmen did not flourish as expected at senior level. Pele, one of the greatest players ever in world football, predicted that Godwin Okpara of Nigeria would rise to become one of the best defenders in the world. This did not happen just as many other promising stars failed to make it to the senior level or global limelight. The ongoing U-20 African Nations Cup is a case study. I saw the first two games of Nigeria. The Flying Eagles defeated Burundi 2-0 in first match and drew 0-0 with South Africa in the second. Putting the result aside, I saw so much promise in the Nigerian team. Coach Paul Aigbogun has done a good job in terms of the standard exhibited but the strikers are still below par. I was particularly happy that wing play was prevalent in the team as the Flying Eagles stretched their opponents and attacked with so much confidence and brilliance. I was surprised to see few of the players who have been making waves in the domestic league with Sharks and other teams in the Flying Eagles squad but beyond that, I expect them to win the World Cup ticket from the ongoing tournament in Niger so that they can further develop as a group of players in the national team. The sad aspect of the country’s age grade football system is that when a team fails to win at African level or do well at global stage, the entire generation of footballers will be abandoned. The U-20 players handled by Emmanuel Amuneke failed to make it to the World Cup and today we do not even hear about the players anymore. Too bad! There should be a system in place such that win or lose, the talented players in the age great teams are identified and nurtured to play roles in top flight national team football. In 2009, Coach John Obuh handled the Eaglets team that lost in the final to Switzerland when Nigeria hosted the FIFA U-17 World Cup. He stressed that emphasis should be on development. “We have to think more about the transition and the development of the players rather than the win at all cost syndrome. We need to groom these players and take them to higher level in the interest of the country but the idea of must-win is bad for the growth of the players,” Obuh noted. Players at the ongoing U-20 Nations Cup in Niger should be monitored and groomed to graduate to the Super Eagles in the next three to four years. That is the ideal situation. Nigeria is blessed with abundant talents at all levels but the management of these players to be among the best in the world is the problem. The administrative issue should be sorted out to make the best out of the youngsters in the country.