A Jos Chief Magistrates’ Court, on Thursday, sentenced a 29-year-old businessman, Christopher Bala to eight months in imprisonment for stealing. The magistrate, Mrs Roseline Baraje, found the convict guilty of a two-count charge of theft and breach of trust. After a summary trial of the accused who pleaded guilty of the charge, Baraje sentenced Bala to eight months imprisonment for theft and an additional six months jail term for breach of trust. The magistrate held that the sentences would run concurrently. She, however, gave the convict an option to pay fine of N8,000 on the first sentence of stealing and N15,000 for breach of trust. Baraje further ordered the convict to pay N13, 000 as compensation to the complainant, adding that he would be committed to serve another seven months if he fails to pay the fine. Earlier, the prosecutor, Ezekiel Galadima, told the court that the complainant, Maurice Williams of Gindiri in Mangu Local Government Area, on Feb. 17, reported the matter at the A Division Police Station. Galadima said that the accused conspired with one Salisu, who is still at large, to steal and sale the complainant’s phone valued at N 50,000. He said the offences contravened Sections 59, 299 and 277 of Plateau State Penal Code Law. (NAN). A Kaduna Chief Magistrate Court on Tuesday sentenced a 27-year-old businesswoman, Angela Luben, to eight months imprisonment for stealing N151, 210 belonging to her friend. The Magistrate, Mr Ibrahim Emmanuel, however, gave the convict an option of N7,000 fine and warned her to desist from committing crime. Luben, a resident… In "Metro and Crime" A Kubwa Grade I Area Court on Tuesday sentenced a 27-year-old labourer, Dauda Bala, to 18 months in prison for stealing a car. The judge, Mr Abdulwahab Mohammed, however, gave the convict an option of N200, 000 fine, with a warning to be of good behaviour. He further ordered that… In "Metro and Crime" A Chief Magistrates Court in Kaduna yesterday sentenced two teachers, Adams Jibril, 28, and Mohammed Yusuf, 27, to 24 months imprisonment for defrauding a man of N3 million.   The convicts, both residents of Chechenji Road, Kaduna, were arraigned on a five-count charge of conspiracy, breach of trust, cheating, impersonation… In "News"