With 109 Senate seats and 360 spaces up for grabs in today’s National Assembly elections, Nigerians are set to choose a new set of leaders that will make laws for the betterment of the country in the coming 9th legislative assembly. Some of those currently representing different constituencies will be returning after winning a re-election today, while a number of the lawmakers won’t be returning, having lost in their party primaries or if they lose the general election today. Despite that the 469 federal lawmakers will be representing every part of the country, some of those they will be representing won’t have the opportunity of voting today, thereby not being part of the 84 million Nigerians that will choose their representatives. It could not be ascertained as at press time, how many men and women are in the race for the lawmaking job, but it is certain that Nigeria’s legislative assembly has 469 lawmakers divided among 109 senators and 360 members of the lower house. Among those that fall into the category of those that may not vote for their lawmakers are those on essential services, such as the police, the military, newspaper vendors, election observers and medical personnel, who are on election duties. Though, these sets of people are not barred by law, they may be restricted by their lawful duties, as many of those in these professions are usually deployed for essential services during any election. While journalists are meant to monitor the polls for proper coverage, police personnel are often placed at polling units to forestall any break down of law and order, while the military serves as back up and also secure the country’s borders against external aggression. As there are restriction of movements, these officers on duty are meant to secure the populace and ensure a hitch-free election. In the case of newspaper vendors, they are always on hand to provide first hand information as reported by the newspapers, as such, their services are usually needed by the electorate. As for medical personnel, which include doctors, nurses and auxiliary staff, among others personnel, are expected to be on ground at various hospitals and clinics in readiness to help with health emergencies. The majority of these aforementioned rarely have access to their polling units because they are usually far away on election duties. A local election observer, Tomisin Anike, who gave reasons for such occurrences, explained that it wa s simply because many people on duty were far away from their homes or places of work, where they register. “You should know that many of us either register at home or at work, but when it comes to the election proper, we will be on duty, away from our homes and offices. This is largely the reason for not voting. “We disenfranchise ourselves in the course of duty, it is a sacrifice to our father land, but we expect that Nigeria will reach the situation of other big countries, who can vote from any place they are posted to. “We need to improve our system to accommodate all of us, including prisoners, they also have rights but we are still dealing wit outdated laws. In some developed nations, people on essential services are allowed to vote ahead of others, so as not to be disenfranchised. For instance, soldiers in the US always vote days before the general election”, he said. Apart from those working, there are also those that have been confined by their circumstances, such as, prisoners and patients in hospital wards. Some of those in old people’s homes and those living with disabilities as well as the weak may also miss out of the polling exercise, simply because there is no enabling system that can aid their movement. For sure, those in the Diaspora won’t vote because the country is yet to accommodate them in the electoral process while some are shortchanged by their religious beliefs. Some of those in the Diaspora have been calling for an update of the system to ensure that they vote, but the laws are yet to be reviewed in a way that would accommodate them. Some of those shortchanged by their religious beliefs include members of the Seventh Day Adventists, who are often told not to vote according to their belief. Speaking with Saturday Telegraph, a member of the church told our correspondent that “it is not against the law but our church frowns at it. We worship on Saturday and we don’t do any other thing”. While the physically challenged people and some students may also be caught in the web due to the nature of their circumstances, some other people without PVC are among those that could be said to have denied themselves the opportunity of voting. While the PVC registration was going on, many refused to show up for the exercise, only to be rushing on the last day of the exercise. That was even after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) granted an extension of the programme. As for the prisoners, the laws of the country presently does not guarantee the freedom to vote for a prisoner who had, by law, lost all his rights, except the right to life, if not on death roll.