Senator Shehu Sani represents Kaduna Central Senatorial District on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts. In this interview with CHUKWU DAVID in Abuja, he speaks on many issues of national interest including: the Police Reform Bill, State Police; decentralization of SARS by the new IGP, 2019 budget and the minimum wage among others  What is the Police Reform Bill all about? The Police Reform Bill is about restructuring the Nigeria Police or repositioning it to meet the prevailing political, economic, social and demographic realities of Nigeria. The Reform Bill is aimed at touching sensitive areas that have over the years clad the efficiency and efficacy of the Nigeria Police and also systematically and progressively destroyed its image. We have seen in the last four decades how the Nigeria Police graduated from an institution that is set up to enforce the law and protect the citizen to becoming an instrument of coercion in the hands of successive administration in this country.
The last four decades have seen the decay of the Nigeria Police. This decay is evident in their operations, welfare of their personnel and in its relationship with the government and its citizens. The bill is aimed at adding value and improving on the essence and the workability of the Nigeria Police Force. Reforming the Police is not simply about increasing their salaries but going deep into issue of welfare, their promotion, provision of the necessary equipment and also the legal redress and institutional restructuring that will make it easy for them to function. We have seen how the image of the Police has been battered by years of the Force being used by politicians and the government. It has been close to two decades since the return of democracy. It could have been expected that civilian administrations from Olusegun Obasanjo to Goodluck Jonathan and now to Muhammadu Buhari should have used the opportunity to rebuild the Police Force that has been destroyed over the years to give it a new sense of direction and improve on its ability to provide services to ensure that professionalism becomes the compass and watchword of the Nigeria Police but that has not been the case. The Police have been turned into the armed wing of the ruling political party or the government of the day to achieve the political aims of the elite, and end up being dumped. We have seen over the years, successive Inspectors-General of Police came with their own ideas and reforms but failed. The decay in the Police Force demands a reform on the law that established police force for it to function and address the challenges of the 21st century and also address the challenges it is now confronted with in a nation of about 170 million people. If you go to their schools and colleges, barracks, DPO offices, you will see that the police needs reform. Funding alone cannot do without a law to address those issues.  What is your view about the clamour by some Nigerians for the establishment of state police; is Nigeria ripe for this? Advocates of state police are people who are subscribing to anarchy in Nigeria. A state police is simply going to be an armed wing of the state government that is going to be used by a state governor to persecute his perceived political enemies and use it to prosecute his own political agenda.
If you have state police, it is a recipe for disintegration of Nigeria. A governor of a state can decide to import arms, give it to his state police to be able to fight his own physical and violent agenda. So, those who are advocating for state police make these submissions in view of the immediate security problems facing the country, we need an indigenous police force in the state to be able to curb, curtail, contain or combat crimes and criminalities in the state. But look at how the state governors are handling State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC). This supposed to be an independent commission but see how it is being misused and abused. They use it to plant their stooges, to rig election and to desecrate the whole essence of election as a component of democracy. That is just a body set up for election; what of having a police force as it is? State police is a harbinger for thugs, miscreants and people who the governor feels that he can use; give them uniform and arms, and then empower them with the law to go after his opponents, and go after communities he feels are opposed to him. In a fragile country like ours, we don’t need a state police, we need a federal police as it is now. This is a country where a governor of a state can wake up and say a certain ethnic group to leave or the governor of a state will say he doesn’t like one religious group; this is the religious group that he likes. And if has a police force in his control, what do you think will happen. The Hausa people who are in Enugu, Rivers, Calabar, will they be comfortable with the governor who has a control of the state police. The Igbo people who are in Sokoto, Jigawa, Kano, will they be comfortable with the governor who has control of the police force that can tell them to leave and they have to comply. In as much as we need a police force that can address the problems of crimes and criminality squarely in this country, we also have to be very careful about having a police force that can be utterly misused and abused. I know it very well that the present political system and arrangement manned by state governors still uses the federal police but there are limitations to what you can do. If you are a citizen living in a certain state and you have been persecuted by the police ordered by the governor, you can report to the IG but who will you report in the case of state police. Most of the cells controlled by the state police will be filled with members of the opposition; with people who don’t like the governor, with people who criticise the governor, people who can write messages and post on tweeter, on Facebook against their governor or against the members of the state assembly. You should know very well that with the state police, many of them are going to end up in jail.  How do you want the government to effectively tackle the issue of insecurity since you are opposed to state police? There are a number of things to be done to tackle the issue of insecurity in our country. If you fill the whole of this country with police men when we have poverty, injustice, discrimination, systemic and systematic marginalisation and ostracisation of a segment of our society, when you have mass unemployment of people, then you already have insecurity at hand and no amount of police can address it. But if you are specifically talking about the role the police need to play in combating crime, then it is very much possible to let the police have enough manpower; secondly, let the police be well funded; thirdly, let the police be well equipped; fourthly, let the politicians stop encouraging crimes and criminality in the society. Today, most of these governors and other politicians have thugs that they fund, arm, give money; buy drugs for and they also aid and abet violence in the society. Now, if you have political elite that encourages such criminalities and crime, what can the police do? There is nothing they can do. But for them to be able to match those things which the politicians do, then fund the police, equip the police; give them enough manpower and depoliticize the police and depoliticizing the police is having a law that will make it possible for a police man that is enlisted into the police force to grow through the system and become what he needs to become without lobbying, without sycophancy or meeting any politician or any person within the system for help.  The new Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu recently ordered for the decentralization of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). What is your take on this? I think all these are cosmetic changes. If you have an outfit that is well funded and well equipped to fight crime, certainly it will work. The reforms that are needed in SARS are the ones that the operatives will be trained and to embrace disciplined not to violate fundamental rights, and they should also be well equipped and also be detached from local politics, and have crimes, criminality and kidnapping as major focus of attention. Most of the state police commands are underfunded and ill equipped. The Commissioner of Police has nothing to show for himself or for the people that work under him. His imprest cannot even take care of the police. His men are starving. Even the salary that is being increased for the police is still cosmetic to the kind of problem that we have. I have never seen a laptop or iPad in any police station that I have visited. Go to the barracks and see the situation of the police. So, if SARS should not just be about handing them over to the commissioner of police, when you hand them over, you also increase the budget of the commissioner of police to be able to take care of the SARS that you have handed over to him. If you hand them over and at the end of the day, you don’t provide enough money to take care of them, you have only added more burden to him. So, administratively, you can say commissioner of police should take of SARS but who will take care of the financial implications; who will take care of that when the commissioner of police is still battling to take care of small issues facing him within his purview.  Apart from the financials implications, there is also fear that the Commissioners of Police might use SARS against innocent citizens. What is your view on this fear? The Commissioner of Police is still in charge of the police, therefore, he can use the police against innocent citizens if he wants but if can’t have a police force that can protect us and serve us well then what we have is a monster with us. And the police should understand that they will one day leave the force and go back to civilian life. And whatever a person does, he will certainly pay for it one day. But as far as am concerned, when this bill comes through, some of these defects raised about the police can squarely be addressed. In view of the fact that the 8th Senate is already winding down, is there possibility of the bill being passed before the assembly expires in June this year? It is not impossible because we are still going to come back after the Presidential and National Assembly elections to continue with our legislative activities. If we are serious about this, once a bill is passed for public hearing, it is not supposed to last more than one week before the issues are addressed. We are just creating unnecessary bureaucracy that ought not to be; and we should not be crying every time to say that the police are persecuting us if we cannot do a bill that will curtail them from violating rights of citizens and also empower them to do their jobs professionally.  What is your advice to the new IGP on how to handle the police? I have seen some of his early interventions in terms of reversing last minute appointments and also his attempt to decentralise SARS and other issues that he has been raising about the Nigeria Police Force. That is a good starting point but I have to advise him to first of all look at how police can depoliticize themselves by detaching themselves from the state governors and the political parties. Secondly, he should ensure that the police respect fundamental rights of citizens. Over the years they have always been suspected and accused and most times utterly condemned for violating fundamental rights of citizens. Thirdly, he should ensure that professionalism becomes the watchword, the emblem and new sense of the Nigeria police. He should go back to the discipline and professionalism that the native authority police used to be. The fourth aspect of it is the welfare of the police. The Nigeria police has been prone to bribery and corruption, and have also become a case of an example of poverty. So, the police welfare is very important. Police colleges are in shambles; there is nothing to show in the police colleges in the last 20 years that the government is serious about. We need a new police force that will be in tandem with the realities of Nigeria of the 21st century. The Inspector-General of police also should look at the need for the police to increase their advocacy against crime and rebuild the relationship between the police and the communities. The Police Community Relations Association needs to be taken seriously, then we will have a police force of our dream. And all these things will be possible if police will be detached from politics. He should not be engaged in any form of confrontation with the National Assembly because if he does that, his work will be tough and he will find it impossible for him to work. And the last thing I will tell him is that it is when you are in office that you matter to people in authority; by the time you are out of office as IG, nobody is going to pick your phone call. Politicians from the presidency to the National Assembly and the state, nobody will call you and nobody will answer your call. So, use the opportunity availed to you to leave a mark, a legacy for which you will be remembered by posterity. Nigerians are worried that the 2019 national budget did not receive any serious attention from the National Assembly before vacating for the forthcoming Presidential and National Assembly elections. Why was it so? Well, the 2019 budget did not receive any attention from the National Assembly because many senators and members of the House of Representatives are campaigning to return to the National Assembly. That was why you saw that the National Assembly was facing drought of attendance before it adjourned to go and fully participate in the ongoing nationwide campaign. Secondly, the altercation between the National Assembly and the Presidency is also affecting the budget, in the sense that over the past few months; that is since after the last party primaries, many things have gone wrong and there is a no love lost between the two arms and the budget has become the grass that is suffering where two elephants are fighting. Even the Senate President could not compel anybody to come to the Senate for plenary because this particular assembly is winding down; and many lawmakers feel that their tenure is over and are looking forward to the 9th assembly. That is why the budget has to certainly wait.   How do you also see the failure of the Senate to look into the National Minimum Wage Bill which was transmitted to it before going on recess because the House passed it its own version? I expected that the bill would have been considered in the Senate as was done in the House but you see, the Senate went on recess earlier than the House based on the decision of the leadership. Therefore, the Senate will consider and pass the bill immediately after the elections of February 16. It has gone off the table of the President; so it is now our own problem here. I believe that the Senate will not delay a second in approving the bill after the elections because it is very important to the peace and stability of the country, and we need to manage the temperament of the Nigerian workers as we go into the elections. Elections are very important in the democratic circle of a nation. We need to consider that there are people that have to feed their families and some people that need to pay their rents and others need to live their lives who are not politicians.   The Federal Government approved N27,000 as minimum wage for workers but the workers are insisting on N30,000 which the House approved while passing the bill. Do you think that the Senate will do the same thing as the House? In fact, if the National Assembly should attempt to reduce, people should come to the gate of the National Assembly and protest. The National Assembly should either increase it above N30,000 or leave it at N30,000. Anybody who attempts to reduce it is an enemy of the people of Nigeria.
People should know that we cannot be here and be collecting our payment undisturbed every month and be talking of paying workers less than N30,000 every month. It is inhuman and heartless for anybody to think of anything less. How can South Africa raise their minimum wage to N125,000 or N130,000 per month when we host South African companies that help that country to pay the money.  Shoprite is South Africa; Standard Chartered Bank is South Africa, DSTV is South Africa; MTN is South Africa. For goodness sake, why south we host these companies that are making millions of dollars in our country to pay their own staff in their country so much salary and we are unable to pay that amount?  It is also wrong for President Buhari to review downwards salaries of those earning above the proposed new minimum wage in order to pay. So, he wants to rob Peter to pay Paul. That is wrong; let him increase the minimum wage and leave those who are earning above that to live their lives. Don’t collect from Musa to give to Sule. That is not heart of generosity. The Nigerian Police Force is governed by a colonial law, which has seen no comprehensive review since its initial promulgation in 1943. Since 1999, following the return to democratic practices in Nigeria, several efforts have been undertaken to review the Police Act to provide a legal framework for the… In "Opinions" The Nigerian Police Force is governed by a colonial law, which has seen no comprehensive review since its initial promulgation in 1943. Since 1999, following the return to democratic practices in Nigeria, several efforts have been undertaken to review the Police Act to provide a legal framework for the ongoing… In "Opinions" A former board member of the National Pension Commission (PenCom), Barrister Ivor Takor, has restated need for the country to consolidate the gains so far earned from the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). While affirming this in a document, Takor, who is also the Executive Director, Centre for Pension Right… In "Business"