 Despite pockets of complaints by subscribers, mobile network operators (MNOs) in the country met their key performance indicators (KPIs) on quality of service last year, New Telegraph has learnt. This is according to latest QoS report released by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), which covers between December 2017 and November 2018. The operators’ performances are measured by the regulator based on parameters such as Call Setup Success Rate (CSSR), Drop Call Rate (DCR), Standalone Dedicated Control Channel Congestion (SDCCH CONG), and Traffic Channel Congestion (TCH CONG). According to NCC, these QoS standards ensure that consumers continue to have access to high quality telecommunications service by setting basic minimum quality levels for all operators. Based on the latest report, all the mobile operators crossed the threshold of 98 per cent call setup success rate in the 12 months review period. In terms of drop call rate, which is fixed at one per cent or less, all the operators performed well as they recorded less than one per cent drop calls in the period, according to NCC’s record. In terms of Standalone Dedicated Control Channel Congestion, however, MTN and Globacom faltered within the period, as they failed to meet the KPI in this regard. The two operators moved beyond the 0.2 per cent threshold and this may not be unconnected to the fact that they are the two largest operators by subscriber number. In terms of Traffic Channel Congestion, all the operators also met the KPI, as they all recorded less than two per cent congestion within the period. But the technical result of operators’ quality of service may be far from the reality going by subscribers experience in the period covered by the report and even now. Speaking with our correspondent over the report, President of National Association of Telecoms Subscribers (NATCOMS), Mr Deolu Ogunbajo, disagreed with regulator. According to him, NCC is looking at quality of service from the technical aspect and not from the subscribers’ angle. “From the subscribers’ point of view, this is not correct because we still have a lot of issues,” he said. “The KPIs are measured technically and are far from the reality of what the subscribers are experiencing. We disagree with NCC on this. There are lots of complaints on Dropped calls, and even the call setup success rate is nothing to write home about. There are times you want to call and the call is not just connecting, the call set up rate is poor, all is not well in terms of quality of service as the report suggests.” However, based on the huge number of mobile subscriptions in the country, the minute percentage of errors allowed the operators might cover a large number of subscribers facing quality of service challenge. Meanwhile, some of the service quality situations also have to do with quality of phones being used by the subscribers, as substandard phones are believed affect the quality of services the users receive from network operators.