As the Nigerian aviation sector, especially the Lagos end, recently went through an assessment by the United States Transportation Safety Administration, WOLE SHADARE writes that the test is needed to appraise the nation’s aviation and airports security apparatus  Poor reputation Air transportation is the movement of passengers and cargo by aircraft and helicopters. An efficient air transport contributes to economic growth and development. However in Nigeria, it suffers from poor reputation for operational efficiency and safety. This is attested to by the present state of the industry in the country.  Recently available statistics and data showed an increase in the use of air transportation. In Nigeria, this is facing problems as a result of factors militating against efficiency in the system. These factors include absence of a coherent air transport policy, bad management, decaying facilities, loose security, closure of airports, intermittent air crashes etc. Not a few, therefore, recommends that adequate measures should be taken to ensure efficiency of the system for economic growth and development in Nigeria.  The issue of security in the aviation industry has again been brought to the fore as Nigeria’s airports security status is being subjected to scrutiny by a three-man United States Transportation Security Administration (TSA) team that commenced a routine assessment of Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Ikeja.  US team’s visit  The team’s visit was to observe the implementation of Aviation Security (AVSEC) measures and to also conduct inspection on recommended TSA security procedures for its air carriers (Delta Airlines). The TSA’s Annual Airport Assessment visit had since held from January 28 to February 1, 2019.  Members of the TSA team are Laura Loya (team lead), Edward Cloniger and Mitch Mankowski, adding that the team came on similar assessment visit last year. As a matter of policy, the Transportation Security Administration of United States of America on an annual basis visits countries where American airlines operate.  While welcoming the team at the Aviation House, Director General of the Authority, Capt. Muhtar Usman, promised NCAA’s cooperation and support towards accomplishing their assignment. He expressed the authority’s readiness to close in real time any open items that may be noticed.  His words: “Safety and security is the most crucial element of civil aviation, NCAA will continue to collaborate with stakeholders in ensuring safe and secure flight operations.” With the certification of the two airports, Nigeria became the only country in Africa to have two of its airports certified by its Civil Avia tion Authority (CAA).  Nigeria, Britain ink deal  To show its seriousness in tackling issues bordering on aviation security, Nigeria and Britain have signed a pact on aviation security and training, as part of efforts to deepen capacity and professionalism in the critical service area.  The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by the Managing Director of the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Saleh Dunoma, on behalf of Nigeria, while United Nations Counter terrorism trainer, Emma Watson, and Kenan Wood from the British High Commission represented the British Government. The parties put pen to paper recently at the official opening of FAAN’s Aviation Security Training Centre (ASTC) in Lagos.  Highly ranked  Nigeria had been rated among the world leaders in aviation safety. The country climbed to Level three State Safety Programme (SSP) Implementation Process. With the rating, Nigeria joined countries like the United States of America, United Kingdom and others in their echelon. Passengers are accustomed to layer upon layer of airport security, but there’s a side they don’t see: security checks for airport employees.  Now, concerns about the threat posed by rogue insiders has led to the realisation that baggage handling, in particular, is a security loophole that needs to be closed. Experts have expressed concern that none of the 26 airports nationwide has met minimum standard of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) bordering on enhanced security. They said though incidences of poaching and burglary on taxing aircraft are not new, it is, however, disturbing that the security archi tecture   has not been reviewed, especially in light of general security issues in the country.  Strengthening Annex 17  Aviation Security Consultant, Group Capt. John Ojikutu (rtd), explained that ICAO’s standards and recommended practices, which guide air transport operations of all United Nations (UN) member countries, also stipulated the setting up of aviation and airport security in its Annex 17.  He said: “The security fence must protect the operations, while perimetre fence is to show the extent of your land. The ICAO said if you have a perimetre fence, then you must upgrade it to security fence. “One of the things you need to do to enhance security level is to ensure that public buildings and roads are six metres away from the perimetre fence. But how many of them have met these basic requirements?”  Attention  Aviation security has certainly been at the forefront of attention, both by governments, the industry and the media in the last few years. This proves the simple point that aviation security is part and parcel of the sustainability of the aviation industry as a whole. Over the years, the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has done an incredible job in enhancing aviation safety around the world and the “no country left behind” initiative seems to be gathering momentum.  To support the global raise of the bar and to ensure that no country is left behind when it comes to aviation security, Nigeria is joining forces under the ICAO framework to make sure aviation continues to be at the forefront of all other transport modes.  In demonstration of management’s continuous commitment to human capacity development in order to meet the highest standards of professionalism and best industry practices as it concerns safety, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has lived up to the vision of the Authority, which is to be one of the best airport groups in the world.  To keep the airports safe at all times, the agency, over the years, invested heavily in safety and security at the airports. Early last year, FAAN graduated 216 cadets from the second batch of officers in the Aviation Security (AVSEC) and Aerodrome Rescue and Firefighting Services (ARFFS) and another 300 AVSEC and ARFFS personnel from the class of September 2017 AVSEC and ARFFS cadets were commissioned in September, 2017.  With the first and second batches held earlier in the year, FAAN has graduated over 700 cadets for both the ARFFS and AVSEC. To ensure AVSEC maintains high standard of aviation security screening across the nation’s airports, FAAN had few years ago facilitated the training of about 35 Aviation Security Personnel who underwent counter terrorism training organised by the United Nations.  Last line  Information sharing is necessary in order to curb criminal acts in the sector, and without the collaboration of all security agencies, it would be difficult for the government to achieve security of lives and equipment in the industry.