Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke of a Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the arrest of a former Director General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ayodele Oke and his wife, Folashade, for allegedly evading service of a $205.9 million fraud charge slammed on them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The judge issued the Bench warrant consequent upon an oral application argued by an EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo. Arguing the application, Oyedepo said the destination of the couple could not be traced and that they have also refused to pick calls from EFCC operatives. The lawyer added that the duo could not claim ignorance of the charge as the case had been in the news since it was initiated. “The defendants are not in court and not represented. They are yet to be served with the charge. “In the course of investigation, they provided an address in their statements. We have gone to that address, but we didn’t find them. The security confirmed they live there. “We also made repeated calls to their numbers, but they chose not to pick our calls. “In view of these, I urge your lordship to grant us a warrant of arrest of the defendants for the purpose of compelling their attendance in court. “Section 114 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) empowers your lordship to do so. We’re ready to produce them if we obtain the order. “We pray for an additional order declaring them wanted,” he said. In granting the application, Justice Aneke noted that it is meritorious, considering the explanations put forward by the EFCC’s lawyer. “I have carefully considered the oral application for the arrest of the person mentioned herein and I am convinced beyond reasonable doubt that the said application is meritorious. “Consequent upon the difficulties encountered by the prosecution in having them appear before the honourable court to stand their trial, I am convinced that the application is not without merit. Accordingly, the application is hereby granted as prayed. “In the circumstances, I hereby accordingly issue an order of warrant of arrest against the first and second defendants in accordance with Section 114 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015. “It is hereby ordered that Ambassador Ayedele Oke and wife, Folasade Oke, be arrested anywhere they are being sighted in the world,” the judge held. Justice Aneke, however, declined EFCC’s prayer to declare them wanted. He said they would only be declared wanted if the anti-graft agency does not succeed in executing the Bench warrant. The matter has been adjourned to 18th March 2019, for report of compliance. The anti-graft agency had last week Tuesday slammed a four-count charge of alleged $205.9 million fraud on the former spy chief and his wife. Oke and his wife were charged in connection with the $43,449,947,000 found by the EFCC in Flat 7B, No.16 Osborne Road, Osborne Towers in Ikoyi Lagos. In the proof of evidence attached to the charge, the EFCC revealed how the flat was bought for $1,658,000. It said one Alhaji Shehu Usman Anka would give evidence of the receipt of the sum of $1,658,000 from the wife of the ex- NIA boss. The anti-graft agency also said that the NIA got about $289,202,382.00 from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). It added that one Benjamin Kiksenenso would also give evidence of how he was instructed to go to the CBN to collect the $289,202,382.