The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has postponed the presidential and National Assembly elections earlier scheduled to hold on February 16, by one week. The elections will now hold on February 23, while the governorship and State Assembly elections, which were to hold on March 2, have been shifted to the 9.  This decision was made on Friday after a meeting by commission’s management to review its preparations for the elections. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting, which was signed by the Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, INEC stated that following a review of “the implementation of its logistics and operational plan and the determination to conduct free, fair and credible elections, commission came to the conclusion that proceeding with the elections as scheduled is no longer feasible.” INEC added that this would afford it the opportunity to address identified challenges in order to maintain the quality of the elections. “This was a difficult decision for the commission to take, but necessary for the successful delivery of the elections and the consolidation of our democracy,” the communique stated. It promised to meet key stakeholders to update them on the development at 2pm on Saturday at the Abuja International Conference Centre. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar have reacted to the postponement, describing it as handiwork of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Atiku who is already in Yola, Adamawa State for the elections, said it was the case of the hand of Esau but the voice of Jacob. “By instigating this postponement, the Buhari administration hopes to disenfranchise the Nigerian electorate in order to ensure that turn out is low on the rescheduled date,” he said. The former vice president who called for calm,  told Nigerians to frustrate their plans by coming out in even greater numbers on February 23 and March 9 respectively. He wondered what might have necessitated the postponement, noting that the Buhari administration had more than enough time and money to prepare for the elections. Atiku noted that the plan was to provoke the public, hoping for a negative reaction, and then use that as an excuse for further anti-democratic acts. “Knowing that the Nigerian people are determined to reject them, they are desperate and will do anything in their power to avoid their rejection by the Nigerian people,” he added. He further called on Nigerians to be patient, noting, “We have tolerated the maladministration of this government for four years. We can extend our tolerance a few more days and give them our verdict via our votes. “Maintain the peace and be law abiding. Do not react to this provocation with anger, violence or any action that might be exploited by those who do not want this election to hold. “Remain calm. We will overcome this. You can postpone an election, but you cannot postpone destiny. “Please come out to vote on Saturday, 23 February and Saturday, 9 March respectively. Frustrate those who do not want this election to hold by coming out in very large numbers. That is the best antidote to their plans.” PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, in statement by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi called for the immediate resignation of INEC Chairman, Prof. Yakubu. He described what he called “shoddy arrangement for this election” by the INEC Chairman as a deliberate pre-determined agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari to cling on to power. According to him, the postponement was part of a grand design by the APC to thwart the will of Nigerians at all cost. Secondus said the party would not accept anything short of a well organized electoral process devoid of manipulation, harassment and intimidation of voters and PDP members. “Having failed in all their nefarious options to enable them cling on to power, the APC and the INEC came up with the idea of shifting  election, an action that is dangerous to our democracy and unacceptable. “The APC in connivance with the INEC have been trying all options including but not limited to burning down INEC offices in some states and destroying of electoral materials to create artificial problems upon which to stand for their dubious act. “With several of their rigging options failing, they have to force INEC to agree to a shift in the election or a staggered election with flimsy excuses pre-manufactured for the purpose. “For the avoidance of doubt, the PDP sees this action as wicked and we are also aware of other dubious designs like the deployment of hooded security operatives who would be ruthless on the people ostensibly to scare them away,” he alleged. He regretted the pains the postponement might have caused Nigerians, especially those who became back to the country to participate in the elections. Prince Secondus noted that President Buhari who promise at the signing of peace accord that the election would be conducted in a fair and transparent atmosphere  had, alleging breach of the peace agreements by sending soldiers and other security agencies to arrest, harass and intimidate opponents in Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Kwara, Kano, Kaduna states. According to the PDP National Chairman, the killing of over 60 persons mostly women and children in Southern Kaduna on the eve of election, was a ploy by the APC to frighten the people away from voting. He recalled that Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai had threatened international election observers coming to monitor the elections that they would go back in body bags. “With the fatal violence in the state on the eve of election, it is clear what the motives are, to frighten the observers from the state so that he can carry out his nefarious acts,” Secondus stated.