A Nigerian lady, Lovelyn Bianca, has in a viral video on social media exposed her friend, Precious (surname withheld), from Uturu Onuaku in Abia State, for allegedly taking young Nigerian girls to Dubai in the United Arab Emirates for prostitution after administering oath on them. Bianca, who was sporting a white T-shirt top in the one minute and five seconds video believed to have be shot in Dubai, said her friend usually makes young ladies swear an oath before leaving for Dubai, adding that the oath is for them to keep the secrecy of the trade and also ensure that they pay the charged price for helping them travel abroad. According to Bianca, her friend, who is a call girl in Dubai, also takes other girls from Nigeria to join her in trading their bodies. The lady, who is reporting the matter, revealed that she was one of the ladies who had been inducted into the business of prostitution in the foreign country. Bianca, who admitted to doing prostitution in Dubai and taking the oath, also revealed that she has paid Precious the N3 million as promised, urging other girls from her area to be wary and not fall into Precious’ trap. According to her, she paid her 13,000 dirhams twice and both of them are now free from each other. She said: “I am here in Dubai. Before I entered into this country (UAE), I swore and I vowed with her (Precious) that I will not eat her money or run away until I finish paying her money which she charged me N3 million or 30m dirhams. “I have paid her 13,000 dirhams which is N1.3 million (twice) and she said I am free and she is free from me because I have settled her the way she wants. “Now, I am no longer serving her but she is the one that brought me to this country to prostitute and I also swore an oath before coming to Dubai here. I am her first girl here and I want to warn other girls to be careful and not be tricked. “She is doing prostitution in Dubai and taking girls to a native doctor to swear an oath that no one will know what she is doing in Dubai.”