Tension hung over the firmament of Oworonshoki community in Lagos like a cloak.
The time was 11a.m. but the usually hustling and bustling associated with commercial activities in the community at that particular time of the day were absent. Most shops were shut.
Fear was boldly written on the faces of a few people who dared to venture outside their homes as they scurried to their destinations.
The fear stemmed from the raging war between rival cult groups
Although the fight has been on for two weeks, it took a revolting turn a few days ago, when at least five people were hacked to death. One of the dead was the Commandant of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), Mr. Dare Ogunshakin.
The tension in the community reached screaming point after the Aiye Confraternity came out with a war slogan: “Operation No Mercy.”
The slogan means that members of the group will not show mercy on their rivals. The operation, however, snowballed, affecting lives of residents, leading to death of innocent people.
A resident, who caved anonymity, said: “Aiye members went round the community, attacking rival members, who belonged to Eiye Confraternity. These attacks were carried out in broad daylight. For all the days these killings and attacks have been going on, police have not come to challenge the cult members.”
Aiye members, dressed in black uniforms, usually come from the riverside. Once they step out from the riverside, they walk to their target’s house and carry out execution, and then move back to their hideout.
A resident of the area, who introduced himself as Johnson, said: “It’s unfortunate that Nigeria is losing young men every day to Aiye cultists in Oworonshoki community. For a long time, we have not been able to sleep with our two eyes closed. Whenever the Aiye cult group members start their operation, which they called, ‘Operation no mercy,’ they kill at will.
“To my shock, I discovered most of these cultists are boys between ages of 17 and 20. These boys are deadly. They don’t announce their arrival. We only noticed them by the manner they walk. They are usually many and are armed to the teeth. We see them with guns, machetes, knives, clubs and charms.”
Johnson further said: “On Wednesday last week, I was sleeping in my house at Ekore area when I got a call that a guy named Stave alias ‘Somebody,’ had been hacked to death by Aiye members. The Aiye members actually came on that fateful day for a target. As the boys filed pass, Stave greeted them and continued on his way. However, the Aiye members didn’t meet their target at home and left in frustration. As they were leaving, they sighted Stave again and pounced on him. They hacked him to death, right in the presence of everyone.”
Another resident, Dare, said: “We’re seriously under siege.” Dare revealed that Odunfa, Ekore, Ogunaike, Adebare, Church, Ososa, Onabanjo, Sokoya, Olanrewaju and Fagbami streets were areas where Aiye cult members have been turned to battlefields.
He said: “Some residents now go to bed about 6p.m., because of fear. We also have restricted areas; areas which we don’t go. Police alone cannot combat these cultists. We need more security agencies to synergise and flush them out of their hideouts and our community. We no longer walk freely at night because of the killings.”
The murder of the OPC Commandant, Ogunshakin, opened a fresh wave of tension in the community. Ogunshakin was killed when he went into the den of the Aiye in an attempt to dislodge them.
A woman, who didn’t want her name mentioned, said: “When the commandant of the OPC saw a corpse near his parked car at Ferry area, he carried out investigation and discovered that Aiye members dumped the corpse near his car to implicate him. Out of annoyance, the commandant and other OPC men went into the hideout of the Aiye members in an attempt to dislodge them. Unfortunately, the cultists overpowered the OPC members and chased them away.
“While they were escaping, the commandant fell down at Olayiwola Street. One of the cultists told his colleagues to allow him to go, but another of the cultists called ‘Swagger’ came to the scene. He said, ‘No mercy.’ He insisted that the commandant should be executed. Right from where I was standing, I heard them say no mercy to anyone who dared them. According to them, they were untouchable in Oworoshoki.”
She added: “While the killing was going on, I was able to see everything. It was done on the road. I wasn’t myself after witnessing how they killed the OPC commandant. When they were done, they sang and danced round the corpse of the man before leaving. They warned OPC members not to dare them again, stressing that they were superior.”
Idowu, a resident, said cult clashes in Oworonshoki had been going on for long, overwhelming the police.
He explained: “According to my findings, the onslaught going on in Oworonshoki was a spill-over of the killing of the notorious cultist, Ibrahim Balogun, at Somolu, in October last year. Most of the cultists, who came to Oworonshoki to kill, are from outside the community. They come from other parts of the state to join forces with their colleagues. The leader of the Aiye members in Oworonshoki is Swagger. He had just returned from prison.”
Fuming, Idowu stated: “When Swagger was in prison, there was relative peace in the community. But his members promised to unleash terror on rivals and residents after Swagger returns from prison. Since his return, his group has killed five persons. I see no reason why police should allow a notorious killer like Swagger to come back into the community. I want to urge the new Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, to work closely with residents to arrest the security situation in the community.”
Idowu suggested that it would be better if policemen were deployed in Oworonshoki to prevent further killings.
Another resident, Iyabeji, said: “I had to move my children to Ibadan because of these bad boys. They have taken over the community and operate with impunity. They used to approach younger boys in the community, forcing them to join their cult groups. Whenever those boys decline, they would threaten to kill them. This has caused majority of the young boys in the community to relocate.
“When they approached my son, he declined. And then, one fateful day, I sent him on an errand. These bad boys ambushed and attacked him. Fortunately, my son survived the attack. That was what prompted me to move him out of the community.”
The factional Vice-Chairman of OPC (New Era), Mr. Agbolade Tiamiyu, said that it was not in the character of members of the organisation to attack cult members without a reason.
Walking down the memory lane, Tiamiyu said: “In 2009 when the killings were going on, residents of the community and some chiefs contracted OPC to flush out the bad boys. We did everything possible to tackle them. They ran out of the community and relocated to another place. After we succeeded in flushing them out, the residents refused to pay us the N2.73 million they promised us. That was how we terminated the contract.
“On the recent killings, we have received overture from the police to work with them, in order to flush the cultists out of the community but we turned it down for a reason. On Friday last week, the Aiye cult members killed someone. The killing was done at the Ferry area. They dumped the person beside the OPC commandant’s car in order to implicate him. They also vandalised his car and left.”
Tiamiyu continued: “When the commandant saw the corpse near his car, he informed his boys. They mobilised to attack the cultists. When the information got to me, I ordered them to return. When they were returning, the cultists ambushed and attacked them. It was in the process that the commandant was hacked to death. How the cultists got the information that the OPC men were coming to attack them is what we still don’t know. The commandant was on Friday last week buried in his hometown of Aramoko-Ekiti in Ekiti State.
“I ordered them to come back because we didn’t want to take laws into our hands. We are law-abiding citizens. We don’t want trouble.”
Although bloodbath is taking place almost on a daily basis at Oworonshoki, some parts of Lagos State are not left of the cult wars and violence.
Last Friday, two rival cult groups clashed at Fadeyi area. The members shot at one another on the ever-busy Ikorodu Road, causing serious commotion. During the clash, which was also between Aiye and Eiye groups, many people were said to have sustained injuries.
An Eiye member, Abdulbasit Babatunde (28), was recently killed by a rival group. Babatunde, alleged to be the second in command (2ic) of the Eiye Confraternity was killed over N5,000 given to the two rival groups by a politician at a rally in Abeokuta, Ogun State.
Instead of sharing the money with the rival group members, Babatunde reportedly bolted with the money. He ran to a beer parlour, where he shared the money among his group members. Out of annoyance, the Aiye rival cult group traced him to the beer parlour, where they hacked him to death in broad daylight.
A source said: “The victim was the son of a popular Islamic cleric in Abeokuta.”