After various cases of crowd violence at the start of the Nigeria Professional Football League, coupled with what has happened in recent years, it is pertinent to note that some venues in recent time have been devoid of crowd trouble. The Agege Township Stadium, Lagos; Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi, Benue State; Kris Dera Hotel Stadium, Omoku in Rivers State and Ilorin Township Stadium, Ilorin, Kwara State, of recent have been able to present a safe haven for teams and fans alike. In 2016, MFM FC who make use of the Agege Stadium as their home ground was ordered to play three games behind closed doors following a crowd incidence that occurred during their MatchDay 23 fixture against Shooting Stars Sports Club. Since then they have not recorded any incidence at the stadium allowing more people to bring their families to the arena. Speaking with League Rendezvous, the chairman of the Lagos State Football Association Security Committee, Olatunde Green, said since the 2016 crisis, they have done a lot to sensitise the fans even far away from MFM games as other Nigeria National League teams and NationWide One teams also make use of the stadium. “I always advise the fans to let us have a good environment because if the stadium is not safe, no one will come with their families and loved ones to watch matches,” he said. “The most important thing for them is to stay away from any act of hooliganism because if the team is moved out of the state, they will be the one to suffer for it as they won’t be able to watch them at home for some time. “Another important thing is that, I keep telling them that if they truly love their teams, especially MFM, which is a church team, the General Overseer, Dr. Daniel Olukoya, won’t be happy with any act of violence at the stadium. “I know all these boys and usually go to their houses or base to relate with them and often time I give them money especially when they are celebrating something in their homes. “We can’t really run away from these boys but all we have to do is to make them understand the implication of their actions on the team and we have been able to succeed in bringing sanity to the fans.” CAF Champions League campaigner, Lobi Stars’ home ground, the Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi, has been another venue of great comfort in recent years. In 2017, Lobi lost 4-2 at home to Abia Warriors in a league game and instead of the fans to resort to violence, they applauded the away team off the pitch and urged their team to make amends in their subsequent games leading to the club working their socks off to lead the table in the 2018/19 season which resulted in their current participation in the Champions League. Since gaining promotion to the NPFL, Go Round fans have been law-abiding as no issue of crowd violence has been recorded at their home ground. Speaking with our correspondent, the Media Manager of the club, China Acheru, said although it has been a peaceful atmosphere, it is not that they have not experienced their own share of fan trouble.The Media Manager of the defunct Dolphins of Port Harcourt said: “At the Krisdera Stadium, we are very peaceful, but it is not to say there haven’t been problems in the past. “In 2016, we were neck-to-neck with Remo Stars for promotion, then some violent scenes at our ground against Remo caused the game to be abandoned and moved to Enugu. We lost it. “From a team contending for promotion, we became stuck in relegation battle. The fans know first-hand the dangers of untoward attitude at the grounds and we tried our best to educate them and that is why we have been lucky. Hopefully, there won’t be any negative incidents at our ground.” The case of Kwara United is worse in 2013. Despite starting the season on a sound note and having the best away record during the season, they still went on relegation after their fans disrupted their game against Warri Wolves, where fans of the Ilorin club invaded the pitch and assaulted players and match officials. The team was banished to Lokoja for their remaining matches of the season which led to their relegation as they failed to record a win in all their remaining home games. However, since the club returned to the elite division, they have kept their fans in check and nothing has happened in recent seasons making the place one of the most secure venues in the country.