A pregnant woman and her two children were yesterday burnt to death in a fire outbreak at their home at Angwan Biri in Bosso Local Government Area of Niger State.
A witness said the fire disaster, which resulted from a power surge, burnt the six month old pregnant woman identified as Adama and her two children – Tasleem and Tasalima.
The fire, it was learnt, occurred when power was restored to the area.
However, no one could tell where the fire started from in the five rooms and living room inside the house near the Izala Mosque at Angwan Biri Bosso where the deceased resided.
Other people in the house were able to escape with minor burns. They, however, said they were unable to rescue the pregnant woman and her children who were suspected to have been deeply asleep.
Some of the neighbours, who said they could not do anything due to the intensity of the fire, said despite shouting their names there was no response.
Confirming the incident, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Ibrahim Audu, said pregnant woman and two children got burnt in the fire incident.
Audu said the residents of Angwan Biri had been victims of fire incidents resulting from power surge in recent times.
He added: “Angwan Biri has had three fire incidents in recent times. This is the third fire incident in the area caused by power surge and each time, it results to death.”
The PRO disclosed that the agency had been to the place of the incident to conduct assessment of what was lost.
He added that the Deputy Governor, Alhaji Muhammed Ketso, had directed that N1 million be given to the victims while assessment should be done to know how to reconstruct the burnt building.
When contacted, the PRO of the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) in Minna, Mallam Adamu Muhammed, refuted the claims that the fire was caused by power surge.
According to him, it was a domestic fire outbreak.
He said: “We are aware of the fire incident but it does not concern AEDC; it as a domestic fire incident.
“There is nothing attached the issue with us at AEDC. We call it domestic incident and it does not concern us.”