As Africa’s most populous country – Nigeria – elects a new leader tomorrow, it is not only choosing a head of state, but a head of government and a commander-in- chief of her armed forces, Felix Nwaneri reports on how the country’s past leaders emerged  The 2019 general elections, which starts tomorrow with the presidential and National Assembly polls is the tenth time the nation would be conducting general elections since gaining independence from Britain in 1960. The previous polls are 1964/1965, 1979, 1983, 1993, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015. Today’s presidential election will see the emergence of Nigeria’s ninth elected president in 59 years. The country’s post-independence leader, Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa-Balewa, emerged under a parliamentary system of government, which the nation adopted on attainment of independence. Tafawa-Balewa was appointed Chief Minister in 1957, after coalition government between the NPC and the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons (NCNC) led by Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe. He retained the post as Prime Minister, when Nigeria gained independence in 1960, and was re-elected after the 1964/65 general elections. Sir Ahmadu Bello, the Sardauna of Sokoto, who was the leader of the NPC, was poised to become the Prime Minister after the polls, but instead he chose to become the Premier of the Northern Region and supported Tafawa-Balewa, who was deputy for the position, while Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe of the NCNC was named President. But, that system of government was brought to an end on January 15, 1966, following the coup that ended the First Republic. Subsequent leaders since then have emerged under the presidential system of government, which the nation embraced with the advent of the Second Republic in 1979. Shehu Shagari – 1979/83 The first presidential election in the country’s history was held on August 11, 1979 and contested by five political parties. They are National Party of Nigeria (NPN), Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), Nigeria Peoples Party (NPP), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and Greater Nigeria Peoples Party (GNPP). The result was victory for the NPN candidate, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, who polled 5.6 million votes to defeat his closest rival, Chief Obafemi Awolowo of the UPN, who had 4.9 million votes. However, under the 1979 Nigerian Constitution, a candidate needed to receive both the most votes nationwide and at least 25 per cent of votes in two-thirds of the states in order to be elected president on the first ballot. Nigeria had 19 states then, so twothirds of which in exact figures is 12.66. A dispute thus ensued over whether Shagari met the requirement by winning 25 per cent in 12 states and 19.9 per cent in Kano State, which he claimed was two-thirds of the required 25 per cent threshold and represented the remaining 0.66 in the constitutional threshold. Obafemi Awolowo claimed that the threshold should be rounded up to thirteen states, which Shagari had not met, but the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the NPN candidate. Shagari was reelected in the 1983 general elections also on the platform of the NPN. Again, he defeated Awolowo by 12 million to 7.9 million votes. On December 31, 1983, the military, led by Major General Muhammadu Buhari overthrew Shagari, therby marking an end to the Second Republic. Moshood Abiola – 1993 (Annulled) After the painstaking eight-year conduct of a transition programme to return Nigeria to democratic rule, the then military government led by General Ibrahim Babangida, voided the result of the June 12, 1993 election, which would have produced his successor. The election’s result was inconclusive before it was annulled on June 23, 1993, in a most bizarre manner. The polled was contested by two candidates – Chief Moshood Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Alhaji Bashir Tofa of National Republican Convention (NRC). Abiola (now late), was coasting to victory before the military junta directed the then National Electoral Commission (NEC) to stop further announcement of results from the remaining few states. This prompted Abiola’s insistence that he won the poll although the claim was a subject of debate for years until Prof. Humphrey Nwosu, then chairman of electoral umpire, set the record straight 15 years after (June 12, 2008), when he affirmed that MKO (as Abiola was popularly known) won the election. Nwosu, in his book titled: “Laying the Foundation for Nigeria’s Democracy: My Account of June 12, 1993 Presidential Election and its Annulment,” stated that out of the 14,396,917 votes cast in that election, Abiola polled 8,323,305 votes, while Tofa had 6,073,612 votes. The professor of Political Science further wrote that Tofa had one-third of votes in 23 states out of the then 30 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, while Abiola had onethird of votes in 28 states, thereby satisfying the constitutional requirement to be declared winner. According to results of the election published on pages 296 to 298 of the 392-page book, the states which Abiola won were Akwa Ibom, Anambra, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Enugu and Jigawa. Others were Kaduna, Kano, Kwara, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun,Oyo, Plateau, Taraba, Yobe and the Federal Capital Territory. On the other hand, Tofa won Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Enugu, Imo, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Niger, Rivers and Sokoto states. Olusegun Obasanjo – 1999/2003 The next presidential election after the botched Third Republic was on February 27, 1999, following the advent of the Fourth Republic. Like in 1993, two parties contested the election. While a former Head of State, General Olusegun Obasanjo flew the flag of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a former Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Chief Olu Falae, ran on All Peoples Party (APP)/Alliance for Democracy (AD) joint ticket. The result was a victory for Obasanjo, who defeated Falae by 12 million to 7.9 million votes. Obasanjo was re-elected in the April 19, 2003, presidential election, which was contested by 20 candidates. He polled 24.4 million votes to defeat his closest rival, Maj. General Muhammadu Buhari (a former Head of State) of All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP), who had 12.7 million votes. Others who contested the election were Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Jim Nwobodo , United Nigeria People’s Party (UNPP), Gani Fawehinmi, National Conscience Party (NCP), Sarah Jubril, Progressive Action Congress (PAC), Ike Nwachukwu, National Democratic Party (NDP), Chris Okotie, Justice Party (JP), Balarabe Musa, Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Arthur Nwankwo, People’s Mandate Party (PMP), Emmanuel Okereke, All People’s Liberation Party (APLP) and Kalu Idika Kalu, New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP). Also on the ballot were Dikko Yusuf, Movement for Democracy and Justice (MDJ), Yahaya Ndu, African Renaissance Party (ARP), Abayomi Ferreira, Democratic Alternative (DA), Tunji Braithwaite, Nigeria Advance Party (NAP), Iheanyichukwu Nnaji, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Olapade Agoro, National Action Council (NAC), Pere Ajuwa, Liberal Democratic Party of Nigeria (LDPN) and Mojisola Adekunle- Obasanjo, Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN)> Umaru Yar’Adua – 2007 The 2007 presidential election was held April 27, to a successor to Obasanjo, who bowed out on May 29 after serving the constitutionally allowed two terms. Unlike in 2003, when 20 candidates contested the presidential poll, the number dropped to 18. The candidates were Umaru Yar’Adua Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Muhammadu Buhari , All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), Chukwuemeka Odimegwu Ojukwu All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Atiku Abubakar, Action Congress (AC), Orji Uzor Kalu, Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), Attahiru Bafarawa, Democratic Peoples Party (DPP), Pere Ajuwa Alliance for Democracy (AD) , Chris Okotie, Fresh Democratic Party (FRESH), Pat Utomi, African Democratic Congress (ADC) and Ambrose Owuru, Hope Democratic Party (HDP). Others were Emmanuel Okereke, African Liberation Party (ALP), Lawrence Adedoyin , African Political System (APS), Habu Fari, National Democratic Party (NDP), Maxi Okwu, Citizens Popular Party (CPP), Bartholomew Nnaji, Better Nigeria Party (BNP), Emmanuel Obayuwana, National Conscience Party (NCP), Olapade Agoro, National Ac-tion Council (NAC) and Mojisola Obasanjo , Nigerian Masses Movement (NMM). Umaru Yar’Adua of the PDP) won the poll with 24.6 million votes. Buhari of ANPP polled 6.6 million votes to place second, while Atiku of AC garnered 2.5 million votes to come third. Goodluck Jonathan – 2011 From three political parties in 1999, the number rose to 63 in 2011, but only 19 contested the presidential election held on April 16, 2011. The election followed controversy as to whether a northerner or southerner should be allowed to become president given the tradition of rotating the top office between the North and South after the death of President Umaru Yar’Adua, a northerner on May 5, 2010. Those who contested the poll were Goodluck Jonathan, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Muhammadu Buhari, Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Nuhu Ribadu, Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Ibrahim Shekarau, All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), Mahmud Waziri, People for Democratic Change (PDC), Nwadike Chikezie, Peoples Mandate Party (PMP), Lawson Aroh, Peoples Progressive Party (PPP) and Peter Nwangwu, African Democratic Congress (ADC). Others were Iheanyichukwu Nnaji, Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Chris Okotie, Fresh Democratic Party (FRESH), Dele Momodu National Conscience Party (NCP), Akpona Solomon, National Majority Democratic Party (NMDP) , Makinde Adedoyin, African Political System (APS) , Ebiti Ndok, United National Party for Development (UNPD), John Dara, National Transformation Party (NTP), Rasheed Shitta-Bey, Mega Progressive Peoples Party (MPPP), Yahaya Ndu, African Renaissance Party (ARP), Ambrose Awuru, Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Pat Utomi, Social Democratic Mega Party (SDMP) and Chris Nwaokobia, Liberal Democratic Par-ty of Nigeria (LDPN). Jonathan, who was then President having succeeded Yar’Adua, who died on May 5, 2010, won the election. He defeated his closest rival, Buhari of CPC by 22.2 million to 12.6 million votes. Ribadu of ACN placed third with 2.07 million votes. Muhammadu Buhari – 2015 The 2015 presidential was held March 28, 2015, with 16 candidates contesting the poll. The election was first scheduled February 14, 2015, but was postponed by six weeks due to security issues, particularly the insurgency in the North-Eastern states The candidates were Goodluck Jonathan, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Muhammadu Buhari All Progressives Congress (APC), Adebayo Ayeni, African Peoples Alliance (,APA), Ganiyu Galadima, Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Sam Eke, Citizens Popular Party (CPP), Rufus Salau, Alliance for Democracy (AD) and Mani Ahmad, African Democratic Congress (ADC). Others were Allagoa Chinedu, Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), Martin Onovo, National Conscience Party (NCP), Tunde Anifowose-Kelani, Action Alliance (AA), Chekwas Okorie, United Progressive Party (UPP), Comfort Sonaiya, KOWA Party, Godson Okoye, United Democratic Party (UDP) and Ambrose Albert Owuru Hope Party (HP). Buhari of APC made history with his defeat of an incumbent president (Jonathan) by 15.4 million to 12.8 million votes for the first time in Nigeria’s political history. He thereby became Nigeria’s second former military ruler after Obasanjo to return to the presidency through the ballot. 2019: Between Buhari and Atiku For the 2019 presidential election earlier scheduled for February 16, but postponed by the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to February 23 (tomorrow) due to what the umpire described as logistics challenges, an unprecedented 73 candidates are contesting the poll, but analysts say the contest is a two-hrse race between Muhammadu Buhari pf All Progressives Congress (APC) and Atiku Abubakar of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).