In this analysis, BIYI ADEGOROYE, examines the legal quagmire which culminated to the failure of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to allow the participation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the elections in Rivers and Zamfara states and the value of internal democracy in the parties  With collation of results of yesterday’s the presidential and National Assembly election results underway, the battle now shifts to the states for the governorship and state assembly elections. But in this regard, the fate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in both Rivers and Zamfara states hangs in the balance following the Supreme Court verdict that barred the Independent National Electoral Commission from recognizing candidates presented by Rivers State chapter of the APC for both the governorship and National Assembly polls. The legal quagmire is no doubt the outcome of a power struggle within the party between the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, and Senator Magnus Abe, over who becomes the governorship candidate of the party in the election. Two parallel primaries were held in the state, culminating in the emergence of Magnus Abe and Tonye Cole. But, Justice James Kolawale Omotosho of the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, on January 7, 2019, barred the APC from participating in the 2019 general elections, following its disregard of a state High Court order stopping the party from holding the ward, local government area and state congresses as well as the state party primary elections to nominate candidates for various positions for 2019 general elections. The court ordered INEC to remove the name of the party and its candidates from all its materials in relation to the polls, and directed law enforcement agents to stop APC candidates especially the governorship, national and state legislative candidates from parading themselves as APC flag-bearers. Unsatisfied with the outcome of the ruling, a faction of the party loyal to Amaechi, approached the Appeal Court and prayed the court to grant it stay of execution to INEC and others involved, pending the decision of the appeal in respect of the Federal High Court judgment. Penultimate Friday, the Supreme Court, however, held that the APC, having on September 13, 2018 through its Legal Adviser and counsel, Chieme Chinweikpe and Felix Nwafor, filed a valid Notice of Withdrawal of Appeal challenging the order of the High Court against the congresses based on Order 11 Rule 1 of the Court of Appeal Rules 2016, the appeal remains dismissed. In the lead judgment, Justice Sidi Bage further held that it was inappropriate for the Court of Appeal to rely on its injunction against the decision of the High Court when the Apex court had set it aside on October 22, 2018. The Supreme Court invoked Section 22 of the Supreme Court Act, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, to overrule the appellate court for admitting the appeal, which had been withdrawn by the APC when it ought to have dismissed same. The latest Supreme Court verdict followed a suit filed at the Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt by Ibrahim Umah and 22 others against the APC, wherein Justice Chinwendu Nwogu restrained the congresses. Despite the court’s order, two parallel primaries were held in Rivers State with Magnus Abe and Tonye Cole emerging from both direct and indirect primaries. Observers have blamed the leadership of the APC in the state for disregard for internal democracy and lack of respect for rule of law on issues that bothers of primaries within the party itself. As at the last count, there were about 10 lawsuits on the Rivers’ primaries alone.
The question is why did the leadership of the APC in the state fail to respect court verdict? Why did they fail to resolve matters among themselves in the spirit of compromise and general interest of the party, knowing that they have a common party- the PDP to fight with? It was inconceivable that they were driven by share braggadocio and primordial interest than party interest. Sad to say, it is on record that Abbe was a Secretary to the State Government when Amaechi was the governor, even as Governor Nyesom Wike was the Minister of State for Education, all of who are illustrious sons of Rivers State belonged to the same PDP before they were driven by ambition into various parties. Also, giving the fact that the Electoral Act stated that the National Executive of a party should conduct primaries at the state level, why did INEC fail to honour the list presented by the National Executive of the APC? Similarly, why did the court nullify the primaries conducted by the National Executive merely because it acted in contravention of a court order but in conformity with the Electoral Act? It is also interesting that despite the Supreme Court verdict on the matter, the APC in the Rivers State has insisted on fielding candidates for the elections. A statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Mr. Chris Finebone said the decision was taken after careful consideration of the verdict. “We opted not to rely on a media circus to convey our right to be included. Unlike the many news reports that were suggesting we were dead and buried, we have since seen the orders and the Supreme Court judgment on the stay of execution which proves beyond reasonable doubt that INEC has an obligation to relist APC or risk being sanctioned for excluding us and disobeying a subsisting court order. “We hail once again both decisions of the stay of execution, taken by the Court of Appeal recently and their reaffirmation of both yesterday. These decisions mean that nothing is stopping INEC from placing APC on the ballot. We welcome the moves by INEC to put us back on the ballot, as the alternative would have confirmed once and for all, the genuine fear that they are working for the PDP. “We wish to state advisedly that obedience to the rule law is the best antidote to anarchy. In the circumstances,  we urge INEC to speedily implement the rule of law and return our great party to its rightful place. We are only demanding a right to compete. “I want to once again hail the decision of the Supreme Court to refuse moves by Senator Magnus Abe and his lawyers to appeal the stays of execution. Nobody is in any doubt now that the Supreme Court’s throwing out their appeal against our stays of execution speaks volumes. In summary, it means that the stays still subsist. That is the clear position of the law. The stay orders, the details of the Supreme Court judgment and our formal letter to INEC are hereby attached for your perusal. “No order or judgment given since, including orders given by the Supreme Court on both jurisdiction and representation have said otherwise.” While the controversy rages, it seems reconciliation is possible, but after the legal confusion would have been resolved. Tonye Cole, one of the factional governorship candidates of the APC said: “At the end of the day, when it comes to reconciliation, for APC to have candidates, which is what we are working on with the courts today is for the party to be put on the ballot. The only ones they are going to select are the same ones they removed their names. So, when you think about it like that, you know that everybody has to rally around that one APC. So, my belief is that I will be the candidate when it comes to the election with other candidates that came out of the primaries.” Another dimension to the issue is the case of Zamfara State, where the Court of Appeal in Sokoto did not ask INEC to recognize APC for the elections, but the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), has asked commission to allow the party in the state to field candidates for the general elections. Malami, who doubles as the Minister of Justice, in a letter dated February 13 also called for postponement of elections in the North-West state. The letter reads thus: “My office received a petition from the firm of M. A. Mahmud, (SAN) and CO, in respect of the need to urgently consider Sections 38 and 39 of the Electoral Act and extend the time for the APC Zamfara to field a gubernatorial candidate in the light of a Zamfara High Court judgment in suit No.ZMS/GS/52/2018 “The letter was requesting that the subsisting judgment in the suit be upheld and respected by INEC, as the Court of Appeal has upheld the appeal with No. CA/S/23/2019; thus effectively annulling the grounds upon which the purported cancellation of the APC Primaries in Zamfara by INEC was based.’’ Malami, in the letter invited INEC to comply with the judgement of the Court of Appeal by admitting the results of the APC Zamfara primaries. He also invited INEC to comply with the provisions of Section 38 of the Electoral Act, which empower the commission to postpone the election for the governorship, National Assembly and House of Assembly elections. He said this was in view of the fact since the Court of Appeal had upheld the primaries as valid, the APC in Zamfara would need a little time to catch up with its contemporaries in the election.   Attention will be focused today on Rivers and Zamfara states in the conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections across the country. This is because the avalanche of post-primary election court cases had risen to 639 before the commencement of the polls. Surprisingly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),… In "News" The All Progressives Congress(APC) is consulting its lawyers in its legal department to file a reaction on the eligibility of its candidates to run in Zamfara state in the 2019 election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), said in a letter today that the party is not eligible to field… In "National news" Even before the first ballot for the 2019 general elections is cast, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has already lost governorship election in Rivers and Imo states. The party’s chances in Ogun and Imo states were also threatened following the refusal of outgoing APC governors in the two states to… In "News"