Dr. Tony Dansu, the Secretary of ASUU-LASU, in this interview with KAYODE OLANREWAJU, reacted to some allegations levelled against the immediate past and present executive members of the union by the Concerned Members of ASUU-LASU, about the N50,000 paid monthly to the sacked union leaders, suspension of some past leaders and elders of the union and non-conduct of election of the branch   Certain allegations were levelled against the immediate past and present executive of the union for which vote of no confidence was passed in the exco by members of the Concerned ASUU-LASU. What is your reaction to this?  Well, I am just hearing for the first time about the vote of no confidence passed in our exco. But, if they have done that, I want to say that the majority of the Concerned members, I mean at least over 50 per cent of those calling themselves concerned lecturers of Lagos State University (LASU) are not stakeholders of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU-LASU) of the institution. Most of them are suspended members of the union and they are non-check off dues paying members as I am talking to you. So, if they don’t pay their check off dues as members, what stake do they have in that union as members to pass vote of no confidence in the particular executive members.  But, they also accused the exco of not allowing them to intervene as former executive members or ASUU leaders in the affairs of the union. Is that right?  Like I mentioned earlier, they were suspended from the union as members because of their activities against the collective interest of our union. It is true that some of them had led the union at one particular time or the other. You will recall and if you follow events at LASU between 2013 and 2014, there was a local strike at the university to agitate for some key issues during the administration of Prof. John Obafunwa as the Vice- Chancellor of LASU.  There were certain policies that were initiated to kill the university at that time. One of these is the issue of hike in school fees. And again, you will recall that the school fees at LASU then was between N250,000 and N350,000 and the university was not getting students as a result of this. In some departments where we have 12 lecturers (PhD holders) there was only one student for an entire programme. The university then was no longer for the downtrodden Lagosians and the poor masses of Nigerians because they could no longer afford the fees. Then, we asked the state government to reduce the fees and that was one of the reasons we embarked on that strike. We also need to recall that there was the policy of “no vacancy no promotion” for which the workers were not being promoted because of the policy.  There was also the issue of the University Miscellaneous Provision Act, which we agitated against during the strike and at the end we got 70 years retirement age for those in professorial cadre and five-year single term for the Vice-Chancellor’s tenure. It was through that strike that we reversed the school fees, it was also through that strike that we removed the no vacancy no promotion policy. If not, so many workers would have lost their jobs in the university.  These particular individuals calling themselves the Concerned members of ASUU-LASU that are agitating did not support the strike. I mean during the strike, as past leaders of the union, when your union declared a strike for legitimate reason, you don’t have to work against such strike, but that was what these individuals did. And, at the union’s congress we decided that they cannot do this kind of damage and go scot-free. Let me add here that had it been the strike did not succeed at that time probably some of those who complied and participated in the strike would have been dismissed from the system for their action.  Again, during that period these individuals were paid their salary, while those members of the union on strike were not paid. These Concerned members claimed that they were not part of the strike. The congress then said these individuals must not go scot free and that they must be punished. This is the reason they were suspended. And, when a member of the union is suspended, he has to go through a process before he could return to the union. You have to appeal and after appealing, the union will process his appeal through the branch, zone and to the national.  At least, one of them that were suspended at that time had gone through that process and is now back to the union. But, these individuals because of ego refused to put up an appeal. We called on them, and we even wrote letters appealing to them to commence the process. We approached them one after the other, and appeal to them to return to the union. At the congress, we discussed this issue and the congress appealed to the exco that presented their matter to the zonal level that all conditions should be waved for them in the scheme of things so that they can return to the union. Indeed, if they are ready to process their return to the union, what is the motive for the press conference and why the vote of no confidence in the exco in the first instance.  But, the executive members were said to be so full of themselves that they have no regard for the elders and former leaders of the union, and that the exco was not ready to listen to them. What do you have to say on this?  I have just told you what they did and the reason they were suspended by the congress. I can tell you categorically that I have met about 60 or 70 per cent of them one on one, to appeal to them. And, we don’t have to bend all the law or principles of the union for them, but that they should go through the process because we want them back into the union. We want the progress of this university and we want development for the university.  Again, the exco is still recognising the sacked former Chairman of the union, Dr. Isaac Oyewunmi, who is still serving as a signatory to the union’s account, while the exco is paying him and the sacked Vice Chairman, Dr. Adebowale Adeyemi-Suenu N5,000 monthly from the union’s account, when their sack was through due process for academic misconduct and not for union activities?  The so-called Concerned Members of ASUU-LASU are very mischievous. They don’t know what they are saying. They have been in the union before and they know how the union operates. Again, I want to tell you categorically that they are doing the work of their pay-master, who is either the Vice-Chancellor or the university management, under the administration of Prof. Lanre Fagbohun. That is what they are doing. They know very well and it is clear in the ASUU Constitution that at the congress, zonal and branch levels, we should process the issue of the dismissal of the chairman and vice chairman of our union. And, it is very clear also that the university deliberately came up with trump up charges to dismiss these individuals  because of their union activities. It is not because of any misconduct. I don’t really want to go into details because the matter is already before a competent court of law. But, why can’t they wait for the court’s decision. I mean this press conference and accusation seem somehow to me. Let them wait for the court to decide on the matter before saying all this.  Concerning the issues of payment of the N50,000 monthly to them, the decision was taken at the congress of the union and it was clear to everybody. For instance, during 2013/2014 academic session before the strike, Prof. Obafunwa refused to renew the temporary appointments of about 23 academic staff and the union said this is wrong. So, for not renewing their appointments, the staff members were not being paid and the union decided to pay these staff members N50,000 every month until the issue was resolved and they were being paid as such. When the issue was resolved about 21 of them got back to the system. The management refused two individuals and they couldn’t regularize them.  The union considered it again that it was victimization and that we were going to pursue it to logical conclusion and the union continued to pay these individuals. One of them left and the other one who did not leave, the union pursued the issue and for 14 months, we were paying this individual N50,000 monthly and at the end of the day the issue was resolved and the appointment was regularised. That gentleman is still in the system till today. So, when the issue of the chairman and vice chairman of the union came up and the union processed the case and realised this is also another victimisation that the university was merely punishing these people unjustly. The university dismissed them from the system because of their union activities, and antagonistic position to the impunity and disregard for the rule of law by the university administration.  For this reason, because we have been paying other members N50,000, we also decided that we will continue to pay these two individuals N50,000 every month. In fact, some members said that the N50,000 was too small for the chairman  and the vice chairman that we should pay them between N100,000 and N150,000 monthly, but the exco said no because we have been paying others N50,000, therefore they should also be paid N50,000. Now, let me say this here again that immediately they got temporary appointments at another institution, we stopped paying them. For the Concerned members to tell you that we are still paying them shows that they do not know what they are saying.  When exactly did the exco stop paying them?  We started paying them from October 2017. Whenthe vice chairman got an appointment in March 2018, we stopped paying him immediately. Also, when the letter of appointment of the chairman came in June 2018, the exco stopped paying him forthwith. Like I said, we paid the chairman from October 2017 to June 2018. The records are there at the secretariat for anyone to see.  The tenure of the executive has since lapsed in March last year, why has the exco refused to conduct another election, as insinuated?  The constitution of the union is very clear on this matter. These people are only lying to you. It is clearly stated on page 26 or 27 of the Constitution of the union, and on page 53 of ASUU Constitution. It is very clear there. It is the National Executive Council (NEC) of ASUU that would direct or call for an election to be held. And, when National Executive Council in their own understanding realizes that there is a crisis in one of its branches, they reserve the right to cancel or postpone election in that branch until further notice. There are precedence. Now, let me give you two of the instances. First, when there was crisis at the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) for about 14 years, the chairman and the entire executive members of that branch remained the chair, vice chair and the secretary of that branch for those years. It is just of recent when the Supreme Court judged in favour of ASUU that they held election at UNILORIN. Also, let me give you another good example that is very relevant.  That is in LASU. One of those that are talking now, Prof. Kabir Akinyemi, was an acting chair under such circumstance. In ASUU, the tenure of the executive is two years, but he (Akinyemi) was not even voted for because he was a vice chairman when a particular chairman left the union for another system. So, he started in an acting capacity. And, so he acted for five years, simply because there was crisis on ground and the National Executive Council of our union deemed it fit not to hold election in the branch until that crisis was resolved or over. So, they know what they are doing. They are simply being mischievous. And, all these things are happening now because the Vice-Chancellor is not ready to pay our Earned Academic Allowance. We have started agitating for the Earned Academic Allowance and hence the Vice-Chancellor has to bring in a distraction to ensure that the money is not paid. I want to tell you categorically that for 10 years, from 2009 and 2019 LASU is the only university in the entire federation that has not received a kobo from their Earned Academic Allowance. But, we want our money because we have worked for this money. That is why we asked the university administration to commence payment of this allowance.  Unfortunately, universities that are not as rich as LASU are paying, but LASU management has refused to pay. We want them to pay this money and it is because the vice-chancellor does not want to pay that he is engineering all sorts of antics, including this press conference and writing of letters here and there to discredit the union because we rejected his impunity and disregard for rule of law.