These are not the best of times for the management of Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu, Lagos and members of the three worker’s unions of the institution. The three unions, under the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics (SSANIP) and the Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) are at loggerheads with the management, led by the Rector, Mr. Samuel Oluyinka Sogunro, over the implementation of Consolidated Tertiary Institution Salary Structure (CONTISS 15) Migration. Meanwhile, the agitation by the three staff unions for the implementation of the CONTISS 15 migration has since 2016 continued to generate crisis as the unions insisted on implementation of the policy. As it implies, the CONTISS 15 migration is the movement of staff from one salary Grade Level to the next Grade Level, provided the staff member meets the necessary conditions stipulated by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), the agency supervising polytechnic and monotechnic education in the country. The criteria stipulated by the board for polytechnic workers to meet before qualifying for the migration, include among other conditions, that such staff must have been employed before 1st August 2009; such staff must possess the basic academic/professional or both qualifications applicable to his/her competence in addition to compliance to institutional policy, and that such staff must have spent a minimum of two years on the current position before the year of migration. The crisis reached a crescendo, when members of the three staff unions threatened to unleash terror on members of the Governing Council and principal officers of the polytechnic during one of the Council’s meetings in 2016. At that meeting, the rampaging union members were said to have locked the council members up in the Board Room, venue of the meeting, however, cut the power supply to the building and threatened to set ablaze the entire building, while the cars of some of the Council members were vandalised. However, the polytechnic in a release, entitled: “LASPOTECH: The Facts About CONTISS 15 Migration,” said following the threats by the unions, the Office of the Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, in order to protect lives and property on the polytechnic campus, directed the Governing Council to implement the CONTISS 15 migration scheme in order to pacify the rampaging union members that held the Council members hostage for several hours. “This implementation was on the terms presented by the three staff unions, which were later found to be defective,” the statement added. Specifically, the faulty implementation of the CONTISS 15 migration, according to the polytechnic, began immediately in October 2016, notwithstanding the three staff unions’ continued agitation for the payment of the 87 months arrears calculated to be N1.7 billion, which was a financial burden to accommodate by the institution. According to the statement by polytechnic, the Deputy Registrar, Information and Public Relations, Mr. Olanrewaju Kuye, given the disregard of the interventions of the deputy governor’s team and that of the state House of Assembly, the State Executive Council proceeded to deliberate on the Council’s presentation on the NBTE documents and released its decision which was communicated to the polytechnic management for implementation effective July 1, 2018, but this was just commenced by the polytechnic owing to administrative inconveniences and the court directive. “The management hereby refutes unequivocally that no staff of the polytechnic was being demoted as claimed by the unions,” the management said, stressing that the state government in its magnanimity overlooked all previous payments made in error since October 2016 to staff involved in the migration scheme due to the defective position of the unions before the approved implementation date of the State Executive Council. To resolve the crisis, the polytechnic management said part of steps taken include holding series of meetings between the staff unions and management to explain the position of CONTISS 15 Migration; writing of letters to every member of staff involved in CONTISS 15 Migration by the Registrar; implementation of CONTISS 15 Migration in accordance with the NBTE guidelines and as directed by the state government, as well as directive by the management to all members of staff who may have issues on the implementation of the policy to forward their complaints to the Registrar for necessary action. Apart from the steps taken by the management, the Governing Council has also taken some measures to cushion the effects of the realignment on the workers. These, according to the polytechnic, include immediate promotion of staff that were due for the 2016/2017 appraisal year; immediate commencement of 2017/2018 appraisal; immediate implementation of annual increments from 2016 till date; and payment of three-month arrears of promotion to eligible staff. As part of moves to address the logjam, the polytechnic management at that instance, deployed two members of staff to the National Board for Technical Education in Kaduna to seek clarification on the policy implementation of CONTISS 15 migration. On the NBTE trip was a member representing the unions and a Deputy Registrar in the Personnel Department, who went on behalf of the management.