President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said that ordinary Nigerians were strongly in support of his administration’s fight against corruption. The President said those opposing the fight against corruption are only pretending not to know what corruption is. Buhari spoke while swearing-in the board members of the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He said: “Today’s occasion is the continuation of this administration’s fight against corruption. It is a cardinal programme in the three-point agenda that I promised to pursue and will continue to pursue as I seek the mandate of Nigerians for a second term. “The fight against corruption is very crucial in our national development. This is why I have often said – if we do not kill corruption, corruption will kill Nigeria. “We are all witnesses to the damage that unbridled corruption has inflicted on our development aspirations. Apart from deliberate and wanton looting of our national wealth and common patrimony, corruption has eroded our values and ethical foundation as a nation. “Corruption has negatively affected our political, economic and social life. Those opposed to our fight against corruption berate us for our focus, determination and single mindedness. They pretend that they do not know what corruption is. “But Nigerians know what corruption is. Ordinary people know what corruption is and they support our effort and determination to fight it.” He insisted that all government agencies must give account of public funds. “We are determined to ensure that every agency of government accounts for public revenue generated or expended. I am looking forward to ICPC’s support both for enforcement of anti-corruption laws and submission of policy measures and directives to prevent revenue leakage and diversion,” the President said. The acceptance speech on behalf of the ICPC was made by Professor Bolaji Owasanoye. Other members of the board include Dr. Grace Chinda, Okolo Titus, Obiora Igwedebia, Mrs. Olubukola Balogun, Justice Adams Bello, Hannatu Muhammed, Abdullahi Saidu, and Yahaya Dauda.