A trader Anawanti Onyedikachi, on Wednesday, appeared in an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos, for alleged N600,000 fraud. Twenty-nine-year-old, Onyedikachi, is facing a three-count charge of conspiracy, fraud and stealing, to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecutor, Insp. Victor Eruada, told the court that the defendant committed the offences from Oct. 25, 2016 to Dec. 20, 2016, at Total Junction, Agege, Lagos. Eruada said the defendant fraudulently obtained N600, 000 from the complainant, Miss Chinonye Ohaka, on the pretext that he would help her procure a computer. He said the defendant, however, converted the money to his personal use. “All efforts made by the complainant to get the defendant to refund her money proved abortive,” he said. The offences contravened sections 287 and 314 of the Criminal Code Law of Lagos State, 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Section 287 stipulates a three-year jail term for offenders. In her ruling, the Chief Magistrate, Mrs M. I. Dan-Oni, granted the defendant bail in the sum of N200, 000, with two responsible sureties in like sum. Dan-Oni said the sureties should be gainfully employed and should show evidence of tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The case was adjourned until March 3, for mention. (NAN) A trader, John Ageh, 38, on Tuesday appeared at an Ikeja Magistrates’ Court in Lagos, charged with obtaining N3.85 million from two men under false pretenses. Ageh, who resides at No. 88, Odunsi St., Bariga, Lagos, is standing trial on a two-count charge of fraud and stealing. The prosecutor, Insp.… In "Metro and Crime" For allegedly stealing N3.5million, a 24-year-old saleswoman, Modinat Jimoh, was at the weekend brought before a Tinubu Magistrates’ Court, in Lagos by the police. Jimoh, a resident of 8, Apatira Street., Lagos Island, was arraigned on an alleged charge of stealing. According to police prosecutor, Mr Ben Ekundayo, Jimoh… In "Law" An Ibadan-based pastor, Isaac Arabambi, has been granted N500, 000 bail following his involvement in an alleged N3.4 million fraud. Justice Joyce Abdulmaleek of the Federal High Court, Ibadan, said the defendant must provide one reliable surety, who must not be less than Grade Level 12 in the Oyo State… In "Faith"