No fewer than four West African countries are in line to participate in the 5h MP Tiger Tennis Championship slated for April at the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja, Lagos. According to MP Tiger Tennis boss, Paul Moses, Ghana, Benin, Togo and Mali have all signified their interest to feature in the programme which has been one of the bedrock of Nigeria’s success in junior tennis at ITF/CAT circuits. Moses, a UK Professional Tennis Registry certified coach, told Saturday Telegraph that he has already got commitment from the national coaches of the listed countries at the ITF /CAT AJC regional qualifier held in Lome, Togo in January. Moses hinted that he is looking forward to take the tournament to a very high stage which informed his decision to travel to the UK, from where he returned on Monday. “In the nearest future, it would be open to players overseas because the aim is to make it one of the very best junior championships and we are hoping that by extending it beyond Nigerian players, we will get the effect of having the game develop at a very rapid pace very soon.” Moses said the actual date is still being worked on in order to accommodate the very best junior players in the country. Morocco-based Oyinlomo Qaudri, Marylove Edwards (U.S.), Serena Teluwo, Oiza Yakubu, Olamide Aluko, Reya and Lolade Holmes, Gabriel Inyang, among others, are some of the national junior players that came to the limelight though the MP Tiger Tennis Championship. Oyinlomo Quadri, Serena Teluwo, Oiza Yakubu and Reya Holmes will lead the roll call of national junior players as the 3rd MP Tiger Tennis Championship takes place from February 26 to March 3 at the National Stadium, Lagos. The tournament which, among others, is serving as warm up for Nigerian… In "Sports" Nigerian tennis, at junior level, has witnessed significant rise in the past few years with some of the country’s players rated among Africa’s best. Our correspondent, LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, profiles some of the promising players.   Oyinlomo Quadri   At 14, Oyinlomo Barakat Quadri is one of the most talented prospects… In "Sports" Nigeria junior tennis sensation, Oyinlomo Quadri, Monday, began her quest for a title at the 2018 ITF/CAT African Junior Championship 16 and under in Tunis, Tunisia with a 6-3, 6-2 win over Boukholda Houria of Algeria.   The 14-year-old is competing at this category for the second time having ruled… In "Sports"