The Senate, yesterday adjourned plenary without considering any legislative items scheduled on its Order Paper, due to lack of quorum by the lawmakers. Also, the House of Representatives hurriedly adjourned plenary after its resumption from the Presidential and National Assembly elections break.  In the Senate, only eight lawmakers out of 109 were in attendance while the House recorded only 12 members out of 360. The two chambers of the National Assembly, therefore, adjourned sitting till March 12, 2019, to enable its members to participate in the on-going campaigns for the governorship and state assembly elections coming up on the 9th March.  When the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, called the Chamber to order, to kick-start the business of the day, only eight Senators, including the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, were present. Following this situation, the Senate Majority Leader, Ahmad Lawan, quickly raised the point of order that the Senate could not deliberate on any issue because the required quorum of one-third was not formed. One-third of the 109 senators is 37.  Lawan explained that many senators were still held back in their senatorial districts because the results of their elections had not been announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Accordingly, he moved that the Senate should adjourn sitting till March 12, expressing optimism that INEC would conduct the governorship and state assembly elections on March 9 as scheduled. Senate Minority Whip, Philip Aduda, seconded the motion and it was unanimously approved.  However, putting the question, the President of the Senate expressed concerns about the delay by the Senate ad hoc committee set up to process the bill on the National Minimum Wage.  The committee has not submitted its report on the bill. Responding, the Senate Chief Whip, Prof. Sola Adeyeye, who is the chairman of the ad hoc committee, explained that the delay was caused by the failure of the committee to sit as members could not turn up due to preparations for last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections. He also told his colleagues that he made efforts to cause the committee to work on the bill through electronic deliberation, but did not get the attention of other committee members.  On whether the committee could conclude its work when the elections are over, Adeyeye said that he had some health challenges to attend to, and therefore, could not assure the Chamber of the time frame to complete work on the bill. He disclosed that he might have to travel out of the country in the near future to attend to his health. Speaker of the House, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara who presided over the brief sitting, said that the House could not form a quorum as only 12 lawmakers were in attendance at the plenary. Dogara, who was reelected to the House for a fourth term represents Bogoro/ Dass/Tarawa Balewa Federal Constituency of Bauchi State, was at the plenary with the Deputy Speaker Sulaimon Lasun Yussuf and House Leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila.  Other members present at the plenary were Chairman Rules and Business Committee, Hon. Edward Pwajok, SAN (PDP, Plateau), Hon. Chika Adamu (APC, Niger) and Hon. Bashir Adamu (APC, Kano). Accordingly, the House stood down all the items in the order paper. Since the commencement of campaigns for the 2019 general elections, the National Assembly had suffered postponement of sittings thrice as a result of the inability of members to form quorum.