•3 dep govs, ex-dep govs elected •Akume, Akpabio, Uduaghan, Dankwambo, others lose bid  Kalu, Amosun, Yari, Okorocha,   An unprecedented 17 outgoing and former governors have won senatorial seats in the ongoing general elections. They are among the 23, who contested last weekend’s National Assembly elections. The outgoing governors, who will seamlessly transit to the Senate, are six in number.  They are Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Rochas Okorocha (Imo), Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe), Kashim Shettima (Borno), Abdulazeez Yari (Zamfara), Tanko Al Makura (Nasarawa).  Eleven former governors, who won the senatorial contests are,  Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Sam Egwu (Ebonyi), Theodore Orji (Abia), Chimaraoke Nnamani (Enugu), Danjuma Goje (Gombe) and Adamu Aliero (Kebbi) Others are Kabiru Gaya (Kano), Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano), Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa), Gabriel Suswam (Benue) and Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto). Equally heading for the Senate are three serving and former deputy governors.  A former deputy governor of Abia State, Enyinnaya Ababribe, who won election for a fourth term would be joined the deputy governor of Jigawa State, Ibrahim Hadejia and ex-deputy governors of Akwa Ibom State, Chris Ekpenyong.  However, it was sour tale for two serving governors – Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo) and Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe). The duo had their bids dashed, following their defeat in the elections. Three former governors, incumbent Senators Bukola Saraki (Kwara) and Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) lost their re-election bids, while ex-Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan (Delta) also lost his senatorial bid. The former deputy governors – Senator Biodun Olujimi (Ekiti) and Steve Lawani (Benue), and the incumbent deputy of Kaduna State, Barnabas Bantex, were defeated in the senatorial election.  Orji Uzor Kalu  The former two-term governor of Abia State (1999-2007) is heading to the Senate on his second attempt to represent Abia North Senatoral District. His first attempt was in 2015, on the platform of Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), but he lost to Mao Ohuabunwa of the Peoples Demo-  cratic Party (PDP).  The people of the zone, first voted on March 28, 2015, during the general elections, but the Court of Appeal sitting in Owerri, Imo State, nullified the declaration of Ohuabunwa as winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).  The invalidation was consequent of an appeal by Kalu against the judgement of the National Assembly Election Tribunal sitting in Umuahia, in which his petition against Ohuabunwa was dismissed. Kalu had approached the appellate court after the tribunal headed by Justice Adeniyi Onigbanjo, on the ground that election was characterized by irregularities and intimidation of voters. Interestingly, the tribunal admitted that there were falsifications, alterations, inflation and deflation of figures in its ruling, but went ahead to strike out the petition on the ground that the former failed to prove his claims of irregularities and falsification of results by the PDP beyond reasonable doubt.  The judgement was however overturned by the Court of Appeal and as a result, Ohuabunwa’s election nullified. A fresh election was consequently ordered, but the same scenario on  which the poll was nullified played, but INEC went ahead and declared Ohuabunwa winner. So, last weekend’s election was replay of the 2015 contest as both men squared against each other again. This time, Kalu,who ran on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), had his pound of flesh on Ohuabunwa.  The former governor polled 31,203 votes to defeat the incumbent senator and candidate of the PDP, who had 20,801 votes. The APGA candidate, Ogba Onuoha, came a distant third with 11,410. Kalu won in four of the five local government areas that make up Abia North, including Arochukwu, the PDP candidate’s home local government with 1,166 to PDP’s 843.  In Ohafia, Kalu polled 5,523 votes against PDP’s 4,861. In Isuikwuato, he polled 8,317 to PDP’s 4,609, while in Bende, his home local government, he had 10,701 to PDP’s 4,875. Ohuabunwa only won in Umunneochi Local Government Area by 5,613 against Kalu’s 5,496. This is not the first time Kalu, a man of many parts, whose rise to national and international limelight was quite meteoric, will be in the legislature.  As member of the House of Representatives between 1992 and 1993, he moved the famous Dual-Citizenship Rights Bill.  Sam Egwu  The former governor of Ebonyi State (1999-2007) is making a return to the Senate for the second time. He was first elected to the upper chamber of the federal legislature in 2015 on the platform of the PDP. Egwu defeated won his second term bid with 80,711 votes against 38,375 votes polled by his closest challenger, Matthias Adum of the APC, to return to the red chamber to represent Ebonyi North Senatorial District.  A former university lecturer, served as commissioner for Education in Ebonyi State before he became governor in 1999. In 2008, then President Umaru Yar’Adua appointed him Minister of Education, the position he held till April 2010. Currently, he is the chairman, Senate Committee on Industry.  Rochas Okorocha  For the Imo State governor, who  would be serving out the constitutionally allowed two terms for governors on May 29, it was a tortuous journey to the Senate given his running battle with some members of his party at the state and national level. Okorocha had insisted on his sonin- law and former Chief of Staff, Uche Nwosu, as the governorship candidate of the APC in Imo State, but was resisted by those who felt that he should not lord it over the party after picking its senatorial ticket to represent Imo West Senatorial District in the National Assembly.  Nwosu was knocked out by Senator Hope Uzodinma, but the governor’s camp did not give up.  Its members quickly mobilized and joined the Action Alliance (AA), the platform Nwosu would be contesting the governorship poll. However, the travails did not deter Okorocha, who dumped the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) through which he rose to power in 2011, for the APC in 2014 on the premise that the party will not only enthrone good governance at all levels in the country, but is a veritable platform for a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction.  The Imo State governor, Okorocha garnered 97,762 votes to beat his closest rival, Jones Onyereri, of the PDP, who got 68,117 votes as well as Senator Osita Izunaso of APGA, who polled 30,923 votes to emerge as Senator-elect for Imo West Senatorial District.  Theodore Orji  Orji was governor of Abia State between 2007 and 2015. He was formerly a career civil servant, but later served as the Chief of Staff to then Governor Orji Uzor Kalu. The former governor was first elected (2007) on the platform of PPA.  He, however, dumped the party for APGA and later PDP on which platform he was re-elected in 2011. Before leaving office in 2015, he contested and won election to represent Abia Central Senatorial District in the Senate. To return to the upper chamber of the federal legislature, Orji, who ran on the platform of the PDP, polled 55,461 votes to defeat the candidate of the APC, Senator Nkechi Nwaogu, who had 29,860 votes. The APGA candidate, Mr. Chidi Ajaegbu, garnered 19,534 votes.  Chimaraoke Nnamani  Nnamani is returning to the Red Chamber after eight years he lost the seat. He had earlier, held sway as governor of Enugu State between 1999 and 2007 on the platform of the PDP. On leaving office as governor in 2007, the medical doctor turned politician headed to the Senate, where he represented Enugu East Senatorial District from 2007 to 2011.  He re-contested for the seat in the 2011 general elections, but lost. He vied for the seat again in the 2015 general elections on the platform of the People for Democratic Change (PDC), a party established by his formidable Ebeano political group, following his defection from the PDP. For the second time he lost.  But, ahead of the 2019 polls, he returned to the PDP, following overtures from the Enugu State chapter of the party and he picked the senatorial nomination form of the party for Enugu East Senatorial District. At the senatorial primary election held in October 2018, he polled 601 votes to easily beat six other contestants, including the incumbent senator, Gilbert Nnaji, who polled 69 votes.   He went ahead to defeat the candidate of the APC, Prince Lawrence Eze, in the election with 128,843 votes against 14,225.  Danjuma Goje  The former governor of Gombe State is returning to the Senate for the third time. He served as governor on the platform of the PDP between 2003 and 2011. He had before then served as Minister of State, Power and Steel from 1999 to 2001 under President Olusegun Obasanjo. In leaving office in 2011, he headed for the Senate, having won election on the platform of the PDP to represent Gombe Central Senatorial District. He was re-elected in 2015 on the platform of APC. For his third term, Goje polled 110,116 votes to defeat his main challenger, Speaker of Gombe State House of Assembly, Nasiru Abubakar Nono of the PDP who scored 39,155 votes. His former Chief of Staff, Lamido Umar Chikaire of PRP, who also contested the election, scored 8,397 votes to place third.   Ibrahim Gaidam  Geidam was elected deputy governor of Yobe State on the platform of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) in 2007, but became governor on January 27, 2009 following the death of Governor Mamman Bello Ali. After serving out Ali’s term, Geidam contested and won the 2011 governorship election in the state and was re-elected for a second term in the 2015 elections.  This means that he would have spent 10 years as governor by May 29, when he would be bowing out. Unlike some of his colleagues, Geidam was initially more concerned with who succeeds him rather than the Senate. But, youths in Yobe East senatorial district, where he hails from prevailed on him to contest for the Senate seat.  Heeding to the call pitched him against a former governor of the state, Bukar Abba Ibrahim, who is the incumbent. Ibrahim was governor of Yobe State between 1999 and 2007. He also served as governor of the state from January 1992 to November 1993, during the aborted Third Republic.  In 2007, he was elected to the Senate. He was re-elected in 2011, and won for the third term in 2015. Ibrahim, initially resisted the move to have the governor replace him, but Gaidam had his way during the APC primaries. Like the primaries, he also had an easy at the elections. He polled 139,277 votes to beat Tata Abbagana of PDP, who scored 18,059 votes.  Kashim Shettima  Many had touted in the build-up to the general elections that Shettima, who was elected governor of Borno State in 2011 and re-elected in 2015, will vie for the presidential ticket of the APC, but he opted for the Senate to represent Borno Central.  However, he had to surmount the hurdle over choice of primary as loyalists of estranged political godfather and predecessor, Ali Modu Sheriff clamoured for direct primaries only for Governor Shettima to convey a meeting of critical stakeholders of the party to adopt indirect primaries. To join the club of governors in the Senate, Shettima, who contested the poll on the platform of the APC, defeated Muhammed Abba-Aji of PDP, who represented the zone between 2003 and 2007. He polled 109,363 votes to beat Abba- Aji, who got 44,257 votes and other contenders. With his victory, he would be the first governor of Borno State to seamlessly transit to the Senate in the history of the state.   Ibrahim Shekarau  Malam Shekarau, a former governor of Kano State is expected to represent Kano Central Senatorial district in the Ninth Senate, when the new National Assembly kicks off in June. Shekarau, who contested on the platform of APC in last Saturday senatorial election, polled 506,271 votes to defeat the PDP candidate, Aliyu Sani- Madawakingini, who scored 276,768 votes. The Senator-elect is expected to succeed another ex-governor of the state, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, the leader of Kwankwasiya in Kano State. This is not the first time Shekarau will be succeeding Kwankwaso in public office.  The outgoing senator handed over to the Senator-elect in 2003 as Kano   State governor and as destiny would have it, Kwankwaso eight years after received the governorship baton from Shekarau on May 29, 2011. Shekarau was a founding member of APC but the defection of Kwankwaso to the party prior to 2015 elections forced Shekarau to dump the party. He was later appointed as Minister of Education by ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. The political calculation changed four years later when Kwankwaso dumped APC for PDP. Shekarau also dumped PDP to pitch his tent with APC and he was given the party’s senatorial ticket for Kano Central.  Kabiru Gaya  Senator Kabiru Gaya is returning to the Senate for fourth consecutive term to represent Kano South Senatorial District. He polled 319,004 votes to defeat the PDP candidate, Alhaji Abdullahi Sani-Rogo, who got 217,520 votes. Senator Gaya has been one of the oldest ex-governors in the Senate, having been representing his senatorial district in the Red Chamber since 2007. He has already spent 12 years in the Red Chamber and with his reelection; is expected to serve another four years. Gaya served as governor of Kano State during the aborted Third Republic between 1992 and 1993.  His quest to return to Kano State Government House in 2003, failed as he lost in the governorship election as candidate of the National Democratic Party (NDP). He joined the league of ex-governors in the Senate in 2007 and later served as Senate’s Deputy Minority Whip between 2007 and 2011.  Aliyu Wamakko  Wamakko, a former governor of Sokoto State was re-elected last Saturday to represent Sokoto North Senatorial District in the Red Chamber for      another four years. The chairman of the Northern Senators’ Forum, who ran for the Senate on the platform of APC, polled 172,980 votes to defeat the PDP’s candidate, Ahmed Muhammad-Maccido, who scored 138,922 votes.  Wamakko was elected deputy governor of Sokoto State to Governor Attahiru Bafarawa in 1999, on the platform of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). He was re-elected deputy governor for a second term in April 2003 and resigned on March 15, 2006. He was elected Sokoto State governor in 2007 on the platform of PDP and served for two consecutive terms before bowing out of office in May 29, 2015. He was among the PDP governors, who defected to APC prior to the 2015 elections.   Adamu Aliero  Senator Aliero, the former governor of Kebbi State, won last Saturday’s Kebbi Central Senatorial election on the platform of APC. He polled 232,000 votes to defeat Shehu Abubakar of PDP, who scored 75,638 votes. Aliero has been in the political terrain since the beginning of the present Fourth Republic in May 29, 1999. He governed Kebbi State between 1999 and 2007 on the platform of All Peoples Party (APP) and later ANPP.  He later defeated to PDP and became Senator for Kebbi Central from June 5, 2007 till December 18, 2008. He was appointed Minister of the Federal Capital Territory by President Umaru Yar’Adua in December 17, 2008 and left office in March 17, 2010, when Acting President Goodluck Jonathan dissolved the cabinet. He later moved from PDP to APC in 2014.   Abdul’aziz Yari  Governor Yari of Zamfara State is expected to join the league of ex-governors in the Senate, when the Ninth Assembly is inaugurated in June Yari, who is the chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF), won Zamfara West Senatorial election by polling 53,626 votes to defeat Lawal Hassan of PDP, who scored 69,293 votes.  He had earlier served as a member of the House of Representative, where he represented Anka/Talata Mafara Federal Constituency between 2007 and 2011. He was elected the fourth executive governor of Zamfara State on the platform of ANPP in 2011 and was reelected on APC’s platform in 2015.  Tanko Al-Makura  Governor Al-Makura of Nasarawa State emerged Senator-elect for Nasarawa South Senatorial district by defeating the incumbent senator, Suleiman Adokwe.  The governor, who contested on the platform of APC, polled 113,156 votes to defeat Adokwe of PDP, who had 104,595 votes. Al-Makura, a businessman turned politician, became governor of Zamfara State in 2011 on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and was re-elected for a second term in 2015 on the platform of the APC.  Prior to his emergence as governor, Al-Makura served as Youth Leader of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in the old Plateau State in the Second Republic and was elected to the Constituent Assembly of 1988–89, representing the Lafia–Obi Federal Constituency of what is now Nasarawa State. He later served as state secretary of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) in Plateau State from 1990 to 1992 and was a founding member of (PDP) in Nasarawa State in 1998.  Abdullahi Adamu  Senator Adamu, a former governor of Nassarawa State is going into the Senate for the third consecutive term.  He was declared winner of Nasarawa West Senatorial District election after polling 115,298 votes to defeat his main opponent, Alhaji Bala Ahmed Aliyu of PDP, who scored 85,615. Adamu entered politics in 1977, and was elected to the Constituent Assembly, which drafted the constitution for Nigeria’s short-lived Second Republic (1979-1983).  He was a pioneer member of the NPN; served as the first Secretary- General and later chairman of the party between 1978 and 1983. In 1994, he was appointed to the National Constitutional Conference by General Sani Abacha’s regime. In March 1995, he was appointed a Minister of State of Works and Housing and held the position till November 1997. He was a founding member of PDP in 1998.  Adamu was elected Nasarawa State governor in 1999 on the platform of PDP and was re-elected in 2007. After the end of his two-term governorship, he became Secretary, Board of Trustees (BOT) of PDP. In 2011, he was elected into the Senate to represent Nasarawa West Senatorial on the platform of PDP. He later defected to APC and was re-elected into Senate in 2015.  Gabriel Suswam  It was going to be a dicey contest for Benue North East senatorial district, and so it was. In 2015, they locked horns together and the incumbent, Senator Barnabas Gemade, got the better of the then incumbent governor, Gabriel Suswam. In the 2019 contest, Suswam had the upper hand as he defeated Gemade who is the candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP).  Not satisfied with the outcome of the election, Gemade called for cancellation of the senatorial election, claiming that it was marred by irregularities in five out of the seven local government areas of the senatorial district. But condemning the former PDP national chairman’s position, Suswam, who was governor between 2007 and 2015, noted that when Senator Gemade defeated him four years ago; he accepted it in good faith.  Ibikunle Amosun  He possesses a charming and pleasant personality, but when it comes to politics, he is not a sheep but a lion. He sleeps and walks politics; the game also loves him too. But for the crack in his party’s wall, last Saturday’s senatorial election would have been a smooth ride for Governor Ibikunle Amosun.  Regardless of the division, he has again presented himself as the lord of the manor by winning Ogun Central Senatorial District election after polling 88,110 votes to defeat Mrs. Tunji Oseni-Gomez of the ADC, who had 37,101 votes.  With some of his allies turning to    foes, Amosun also had scores to settle with former governor of Lagos State and national leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, on the one hand, and against the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on the other over the state’s governorship succession battle. Governor Amosun was first elected senator in 2003 to represent Ogun Central senatorial district. He made the first attempt at governing the state in 2007 but failed.  However, his second attempt yielded fruit as he was elected governor of the state in 2011 on the platform of the now defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN).  With his eyes fixed on returning to the senate, Governor Amosun campaigned vigorously across his senatorial district without allowing the skirmishes that trailed his floating of his lackey, Adekunle Akinlade, as the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement, affecting him. Many members of the mainstream APC sees his actions as anti-party related but the close relationship he savors with President Buhari makes him appear untouchable.  For Amosun, the first step is done and dusted; all on his mind is how to have a repeat of victory and put down the uprising against him within the APC ranks. How intends to swim against the tide is left to be seen.   Enyinnaya Abaribe  The former Abia State deputy governor was first elected to represent Abia South Senatorial District in the Senate in April 2007 on the platform of the PDP. He got re-elected in 2011 for a second term and a third term in 2015, and is currently the Chairman Senate Committee on Power. He is returning the Senate for a fourth term.  Chris Ekpenyong  Defeating former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio is no mean feat. But a former deputy governor of the state, Chris Ekpeyong, did just that in an uncommon way last Saturday. Ekpenyong defeated Akpabio in the Akwa Ibom North West senatorial election with more than double his votes, after securing 136,373 votes as against the senator’s 67,487.  The former deputy governor, who is the candidate of the PDP, served alongside the former governor Victor Attah. Although he was impeached as the deputy governor of Akwa Ibom state in 2005 by a 23-member panel on grounds of sundry allegations, he was however returned to that position in less than seven days after the intervention of then-President Olusegun Obasanjo.  He was later forced to resign afterwards. Fourteen years later, he is back with a bang defeating an “uncommon senator, who apart from being an incumbent senator, a two-time governor and a ranking member of the APC.  Ibrahim Hassan  Hassan, the deputy governor of Jigawa State who contested on APC’s platform, won the Jigawa North-East senatorial election by scoring 184,185 votes to defeat a PDP serving senator, Ubale Shittu, who polled 103,039 votes.   In 1999, Hassan, a lawyer by profession, became the Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice, Jigawa State, a position he held until 2000 when he was appointed the Secretary to the State Government. He was later elected as deputy governor of the state.  •TO BE CONTINUED TOMORROW The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have picked 25 current and former state governors as their senatorial candidates for the February 14, 2019 election. Kano and Kwara states lead the pack with five serving and former governors jostling for the senatorial seats.… In "News" For eight state governors on the last lap of their second terms, the fear of precipitous loss in stature after attainment of great heights in politics has prompted them to declare for the Senate in order to remain relevant in the polity, FELIX NWANERI reports   Less than six months… In "Politics" All eyes are on seven sitting state governors who are on the last lap of their second terms as they test their popularities in today’s senatorial elections. WALE ELEGBEDE looks at their chances in the feisty race   Since the return to democracy in 1999, the probable destination of many… In "Politics"