EMMANUEL MASHA reports that the scramble for votes of the people of the South-South by the presidential candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, may alter the political balance in the zone   The current political climate in the South-South geopolitical zone is somewhat unpredictable. There are disagreements among the oil-rich region’s influential leaders over the presidential candidate, who truly deserves the peoples’ votes.
While some of the leaders are rooting for the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari others strongly feel that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is a far better option for the Niger Delta region.
But among these self-proclaimed leaders, are those some observers regard as “guns for hire” because they really have no political relevance or influence in their respective local government areas, not to talk of delivering an entire state.
One observer said that it is madness for anyone to promise what they cannot deliver. “They keep deceiving politicians, claiming that they can deliver millions of votes even though they don’t know how to mobilize or have the past history,” he added.
Despite the battle within the APC and PDP over the polls, the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) is in a pole position to influence who wins between Buhari and Atiku in the Niger Delta region. The group has already adopted Atiku as its preferred candidate.
The group’s job to mobilise for the PDP candidate seems to have been simplified given the fact that since 1999, the Niger Delta region has traditionally been a stronghold of the party, but it not yet a done deal as in 2015, PANDEF supported the re-election bid of then President Goodluck Jonathan, but failed.
While the 2015 presidential contest was strictly between Jonathan, a Southern Christian and Buhari, a Northern Muslim, this time it is between two Northern Muslims.
Some observers might conclude that PANDEF’s endorsement of Atiku might not yield the expected result in the region, but that would amount to reducing the group’s influence in the region. For example, when the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) embarked on a bombing spree in 2016, it took PANDEF’s intervention for the agitators to cease fire.
The Niger Delta is one of the very few regions in the country that the PDP has maintained a rare political dominance. With the exception of Edo State, which slipped from PDP’s grip in 2007, the remaining five states Rivers, Delta, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Cross Rivers have remained PDP despite efforts by other political parties to wrestle power from the PDP.
In 2015, efforts by former Governors Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and Timipreye Sylva to deliver Rivers and neighbouring Bayelsa to the APC failed. But the dominance of the PDP has come under threat as some former top PDP leaders have teamed up with the duo to strengthen the APC in the zone.
Unarguably, the biggest fish in the net of the APC is former Akwa State governor, Senator Godswil Akpabio, who has a strong followership in his state. And the last three and half years of the Buhari administration has contributed immensely in setting the tone for an APC quest to unsettle the political balance in the Niger Delta.
The countless political appointees from the Niger Delta serving in the Buhari administration have also joined forces with the traditional political heavyweights in the quest to give the APC a foothold in the region.
But within PANDEF, under the leadership of foremost Ijaw leader, Chief Edwin Clark, there is a strong opposition to the Buhari administration. The group’s major grouse is the current government’s refusal to restructure the country despite listing it among its electoral promises during the campaign trails in 2015.
Also, the group is unhappy that the Federal Government has not acted on its 16-point demand, which it presented in the heat of the attacks by the Niger Delta Avengers, which caused serious damage to the country’s oil industry.
Around August 2017, when the National Assembly rejected the constitution amendment bill on devolution of powers from the Federal Government to the states, leaders of PANDEF accused the APC-led administration of being antagonistic to the interest of the Niger Delta.
Clark and other Niger Delta leaders also pointed out that the killing of the bill had reduced the possibility of restructuring the country along fiscal federal lines.
He said: “Suddenly, the word ‘Restructuring’ has become a pain in the ears of a few champions of wicked hegemony. All we are saying is, let us go back to the negotiated 1960 Independence Constitution, on which the 1963 Republican Constitution was moulded. If there be anything wrong with that constitution, it can become an issue to ameliorate by amicable negotiations and consensus.
“Anything else is most obnoxious and totally unacceptable to the people of the entire Southern and Middle Belt areas of Nigeria, as well as the growing numbers of well-meaning Nigerians from the Northern parts of the country.”
However, strong and formidable as PANDEF might appear, some of its members are unhappy over the endorsement of Atiku. When the group endorsed the former Vice President, it insisted that until Nigeria is restructured, the needed unity for a strong and virile country would remain elusive.
At a stakeholders meeting in Warri, Delta State, PANDEF’s National Secretary, Alfred Mulade, said the body had met other ethnic groups in the country including Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Afenifere, Middle Belt Forum and Northern Elders Forum and picked Atiku as the best candidate to address the country’s challenges.
But PANDEF’s Publicity Secretary, Chief Sara-Igbe said: “The leader can say anything, but it should be on record that PANDEF has not met to take any of such decision. As far as I am concerned, we have not met as a body and besides, the constitution of PANDEF bans the forum from being partisan.
“Article 1 of PANDEF constitution states that we must not be partisan, so I do not know how and where that endorsement is coming from but PANDEF as a body and its executive has not met neither has the general assembly of PANDEF which is the highest authority met to take that resolution. For decisions to be taken, we must meet and whatever decisions that is taken must be within the constitution of such organisation and any time we go against the constitution, whatever decision taken is null and void.”
Those not familiar with the region’s politics might be surprised to know that there are some who want Buhari to be re-elected despite the position of PANDEF.
Recently, Amb. Sukubo Sara-Igbe Sukubo, who leads a Coalition of Niger Delta Youth Groups (CNDYG), promised to deliver 10,000 youths for Buhari. The youths drawn from Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Cross River and Akwa Ibom states, made this known at the South-South zonal rally of the APC held in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State.
Sukubo said: “The group wants the continuous delivery of dividends of democracy in parts of the country, especially the Niger Delta region that is experiencing rapid infrastructural revolution. This administration should be returned in order to consolidate on the gains it has recorded in the fight against insurgency and corruption. It is our commitment and determination to make sure the Niger Delta region benefits from the second phase of the integrity administration.”
Irrespective of what politicians or the leaders have promised to deliver to their principals, the rising poverty and unemployment among the people of the Niger Delta will play a key role in who between Buhari and Atiku, gets the votes of the people. The presidential election re-scheduled for February 23 has been regarded as ‘a northern affair’ because the two leading candidates, President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are both from the North. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes   Come… In "Politics" Nigerians will be going to the poll on February 16, to elect a new president from an unprecedented 73 candidates in the race for the country’s number one position, but out of this number, only a handful have, so far, presented themselves to the electorate since the presidential campaign started… In "Politics" The Coalition of United Political parties (CUPP) has adopted the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as a consensus candidate for the 2019 presidential election. CUPP was formed in June this year by opposition political parties to field a common presidential candidate to oust President… In "News"