Benin Electricity Distribution Company Plc. (BEDC) has raised its investments for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), as it boosted safety campaigns in schools at its coverage areas. In a statement, the company added that it further demonstrated commitment to reducing electrical accidents among school children and tampering with electricity equipment, as it continued with its safety sensitization campaigns in primary and secondary schools with a donation of over 20,000 exercise books with safety tips to some schools in Edo state. The safety sensitization is part of the BEDC Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme. Speaking during the sensitization campaign held at Eyean Secondary School in Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of Edo state, recently, Health, Environment and Safety Manager of BEDC, Mr. Gilbert Nweke, educated the students on the dangers resulting from unsafe acts such as tampering with electrical installations, living and trading under high tension overhead lines, overcrowded electrical sockets, stepping/ touching lines (electrical wires) and playing near distribution sub- stations etc,’ the statement added. The Principal, Eyean Secondary school, Mr. P.K Idemudia, who was said to be elated at the exercise ex-pressed appreciation to BEDC for the visit, saying: ” this is a good innovation by BEDC, it is the first time we are witnessing this campaign from any electricity service providers in the country,”. The team Lead of CSR Project, Mrs. Felicia Nlemoha said: “the campaign will promote safety in the use of electricity at home, schools, road, and workplace and reduce the rate of electricity accidents and hazards amongst students.” She added: “The students will now become safety ambassadors in their various homes.” “In addition to the safety campaign, BEDC will also commence the formation of energy clubs called ‘Joules’ in secondary schools,” she said. “The growth of Joules club will metamorphose into a debate competition among member schools. The winners of the competition will in turn become brand ambassadors of BEDC. It will be recalled that BEDC had earlier visited some primary and secondary schools in Edo state, which included those in; Ogbe, Oliha, Iyase Ugbekun, Ologbosere, Isohan, Ogenerie primary schools and in addition to Imaguero Secondary School. In furtherance of its resolve to maximize the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme to further deepen its metering programme, BEDC Electricity PLC (BEDC) has received 27 applications for the scheme during which seven, which emerged after screenings are currently going through the financial bid review process. The electricity distribution firm… In "Business" The Management of Benin Electricity Distribution Plc. (BEDC) last weekend commended Ovbiogie Community in Ekiadolor area of Benin, Edo State for apprehending electricity vandals. This came as the Eko Electricity Distribution Company said that the Lagos State Command of Nigeria Police has promised to support the company to boost its… In "Business" The clamp down on vandals of electricity equipment under the network of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) has been heightened with a Benin Magistrate Court sitting in Ubiaja in Esan South East LGA, of Edo state, sentencing two transformer vandals to prison. The vandals - Mohammed Dan Fulani, 27… In "Business"