Former governor of Abia State and stalwart of All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu yesterday gave an insight into how the winner of the February 16 Presidential election will emerge. He said majority from Northern Nigeria would determine the winner. According to Kalu, experience has shown that whoever clinches majority of the votes from the North always emerges as President. He said he was confident that President Muhammadu Buhari would be re-elected because he already garnered over 14.9 million votes to emerge as the flag bearer of the ruling APC during its primaries.  Speaking on arrival at a private hangar at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Kalu said with over 14.9 million votes already in his basket, it would be easier for Buhari to coast home to victory. This is just as Kalu affirmed that with the infrastructural revolution embarked upon in the South- East, the President will shore up his electoral changes better that he did in 2015. He said people of the region have come to realize that President Buhari, who was painted in different light, has shown more love for the Igbo through the many projects executed in the region. He cited the payment of pension to Biafrian soldiers and police, payment of severance benefits to former workers of Nigeria Airways Limited and Nigerian Railways Corporation, and massive road construction across the South-East.  Kalu said Buhari will do well electorally in Anambra State, with a projected 50 per cent of the votes cast; while he will pull over 35 per cent of votes cast in Enugu; and 50 per cent in Ebonyi; whereas in Imo State, Buhari will pull 52 per cent; and up the ante by pulling between 51 and 65 per cent of votes in Abia State.  Kalu said there was no division amongst South Easterners on the choice of Buhari being re-elected. He cautioned the Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo, against turning the group into a political party, because they do not have the mandate to tell Igbo people, which party or candidate to cast their votes for. He said because Ohanaeze comprises people of different political parties, it would be wrong for them to endorse Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as its preferred candidate.  Kalu, however, spared a thought for the international community: the European Union, United States and the United Kingdom on their interference on Nigeria’s presidential election. He said as global stakeholders, they should advise on how to achieve peace and transparent elections, and allow Nigerian voters to determine their leaders through the polls. The former governor described Buhari as a true democrat, who will peacefully move to his Daura home town, in any event that he loses the presidential election, which he does not envisage.  Speaking on his senatorial ambition, he said the APC would not tolerate any act of electoral malpractice as was allegedly practiced in 2015 by the then ruling party. Kalu said he was intimidated by agents of government and security forces, who positioned four armoured tanks in front of his Igbere country home to pave the way for his opponent. He called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to beam their searchlight on some constituencies in Abia State that are flash points of electoral manipulation.  Kalu appealed to parents to caution their children and wards to eschew being used for political thuggery as the people will rise to defend their votes if some politicians try to usurp the process. He took a swipe at former President Olusegun Obasanjo, whom he said wants to control every sitting president.  Kalu said Obasanjo likes to live on government for life, to eat free food, use government facilities for life. He said: “He brought corruption to government in 1999. Atiku who is good now, was bad to him before. No one is good to Obasanjo. He wants to remain relevant for life, this is his character. This same Obasanjo squandered over $16 billion on the power sector. “The EFCC chairman, Ibrahim Magu should do his job and bring up all petitions  written about Obasanjo.  I challenge him to do so.” Kalu said he was recuperating fast and that his illness that took him overseas was not a ploy to escape ongoing trial by the EFCC. He said he found it appalling that rather than put themselves in his shoes as human that could fall ill, some Nigerians were spreading rumours that he was in coma and may have died and a certain George from Gambia was paraded as his look alike.  Kalu said he did not join the APC to escape justice as being alleged in some quarters, insisting that Buhari does not spare anyone who violates the law on account of personal friendship. He said: “Buhari does not joke with what he believes in, no matter who is involved. The Buhari I know for almost 32 years has always been like that.”