Four years ago, they were in opposition. And, a combination of almost non-stop media attacks, coupled with voters tiredness with the long 16-year rule of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which many blamed rightly or wrongly for their worsening situation, ensured that for the first time in Nigerian democratic history, an opposition party edged out a sitting government. The then opposition, All Progressives Congress (APC), achieved this epoch-making feat courtesy of the 15,424,921 Nigerians that voted for them at the expense of the 12,853,162 that wanted “continuity”. Today, according to the figures given by the nation’s election umpire, INEC, 84,271,832 Nigerians are eligible to head to the 119,973 polling units spread across the country, to choose who will govern the ‘Giant of Africa’ for the next four years, in the sixth quadrennial election to be held since the end of military rule in 1999. Apart from the fact that only 68,833,476 Nigerians registered to vote in 2015, back then there were only 14 candidates that vied for the nation’s top position, unlike the staggering 79 that scaled the INEC this time around. Of course, we all know that in spite of the best efforts to gain traction and become relevant in the scheme of things, only two people are really in contention to tussle for the keys to the Aso Rock Presidential Villa at the end of today’s exercise – President Muhammadu Buhari, the incumbent, who is hoping to extend his stay by another four years, and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, of the largest opposition party PDP, who is hoping to evict him from the Villa. Sadly despite the numerous problems besetting the nation, both the main parties and their presidential candidates failed to really espouse concrete plans they have to improve the lot of the citizenry they are seeking their votes today. Rather than doing this, they opted for mudslinging and name calling. For instance, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) embarked on a strike to press for improved funding for universities back in November and yet the government in power refused to “settle” the lecturers until early this month. Surprisingly, the opposition party even failed to milk the situation opting to concentrate on other issues dearer to them. And why wouldn’t they, when virtually all the children of the key actors in the party, were not affected by the walkout, because they do not study in Nigeria. That is what most Nigerians who aspire to get into elective office often do. More of self-serving interests, rather than the “good of the people”. In the push to win votes, some candidates even made some very outlandish claims, unbecoming of supposedly suave modernday politicians. But of course knowing that no matter what they say or do, they will have some Nigerians ready to follow them all the way. And despite the best efforts of the National Peace Committee headed by former military Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar and other members of the committee, like Bishop of the Sokoto Catholic Diocese, Matthew Hassan Kukah and other concerned individuals and groups, pockets of violence persisted in the run up to today’s polls. An attempt by the committee to bring former US President Bill Clinton into the country to further push for peaceful polls failed as the 42nd president declined, with the committee explaining in a statement: “Over the course of the last several days, and after various conversations with the different stakeholders, it’s become apparent that President Clinton’s visit to Nigeria has the potential to be politicized in a way that is not in line with the goals of the Committee. Therefore, he will not be traveling to Abuja.” Celebrated columnists and former Presidential Spokesman under Goodluck Jonathan, who is now vying to become Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Dr Reuben Abati was moved to write on the scourge in his column midweek having been on the receiving end. In the piece titled: “Notes Before the Election: The Threat of Violence”, he noted: “But the bigger problem is the threat of violence. I have written about this in an earlier column in this space, but the more I am involved in this thing called Nigerian politics, or if you like, Ogun state politics, the more alarmed and worried I am. On Tuesday, February 5, the Assistant Inspector General of Police, in charge of Zone 2 (Ogun and Lagos states) invited political parties involved in Ogun State politics to the Zone 2 headquarters in Onikan, Lagos to a meeting titled ‘Emergency Security Meeting’. AIG Lawal Shehu expressed the concern of the police about the rising spate of violence in Ogun State politics. He spoke for about 40 minutes. He sounded more like a preacher rather than a policeman.” He goes on to point out that in spite of Shehu and the efforts of former President Olusegun Obasanjo to put a lid on the violence it has persisted. “I am worried because the meeting called by AIG Lawal Shehu seems to have had no effect. The police may mean well, but the situation in Ogun State cannot be addressed with prayers and preachments. A day after the meeting in Onikan, which I attended with party leaders…two of my campaign vehicles were vandalized – the second time within a month. One of our men, Suleiman was beaten up.” Despondently, this scenario played out in many parts of the country in the run up to today – turning politics into a do-or-die affair! Hopefully it will also not capture the headlines of tomorrow’s newspapers. I do not envy the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, because in spite of his repeated claims that the Commission is ready to provide free and fair elections, he cannot be everywhere making sure that all the dramatis personnel are playing by the rules. If only one state election, Osun, could have generated so much controversy despite the best efforts of INEC, one can only imagine what will play out at the various polling units dotted across the length and breadth of the country. While INEC is striving to give the country the best election every, there are those whose single aim is to negate the Commission’s best effort because they must win by hook or crook! The politicians, party faithfuls, some security personnel and even some Commission staff will definitely be on the same page with Yakubu, who was appointed into the hot seat on October 21, 2015. Unhappily at the end of the day should things go awry, even those that played a major hand will still cry “foul”! And at the end of the day, the true views of millions of Nigerians may not be properly captured because of these “desperadoes”. One can only plead that people are allowed to go about carrying out their civic duties without any hindrance or molestation, so that at the end of the day, the true will of the majority of people prevails. This will ensure that those that believe they have been shortchanged will not resort to self-help measures. In concluding, let us all go out to use our PVCs to ensure we shape our future – hopefully for the better!