An Ekiti APC chieftain, Senator Ayo Arise, has described the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen’s suspension as an embarrassment not only to the judiciary, but to the country as a whole. He called on Nigerians to take advantage of the controversy and make correction on some weaknesses in the Nigerian Constitution. He said the suspended CJN could have saved himself and the nation from the ‘mess’, if he had taken the ‘path of honour and resigned from his position. “Well, it is an unfortunate scenario that we found ourselves. Ordinarily On noghen should have saved the judiciary, saved this country and also saved his name by simply resigning from the office.   “Whether it is an allegation, a confirmation or deliberate misrepresentation, whatever the case may be, once Onnoghen has owned up and said he forgot to make the declaration of his assets, he should have resigned and apologize to Nigerians that he, as an individual, represents an institution.  No individual should be larger than the judiciary. It is not worth what it has been subjected to,” he stressed. Arise, further said: “There is no room for apportioning blame at this time .The President acted based on advise from the Attorney General of the Federation, who is the number one Law Enforcement Officer of the country. “When you look at the whole scenario, it appears that it challenges the essence of our constitution .  How do you have somebody who has admitted to violating the law of the land to continue to lead that arm of government? “Obviously, there is no basis for justification, either morally or legally; looking at the reactions of several organizations, the NBA, South South Governors Forum and others. “Yes, there is a little bit of controversy in the constitution.  The constitution says when a judicial officer commits an offense, he or she should be refer to the Nigeria Judicial Council (NJC). It is the same constitution that says when a public servant fails to declare his or her assets or made false declaration, such officer would be sent to the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) for prosecution and administration of justice. And a number of guidelines were stated there in.”