The management of Asokoro General Hospital, Abuja, has said the death of Human Rights activist, Kafayat Abdulazeez was not as a result of the hospital’s negligence, or poor attitude of its staff.  Reacting to the allegations trailing the hospital for allegedly neglecting the deceased, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the facility, Uche Afiomah, maintained that the hospital should not be held responsible for the death of Kafayat, as the hospital did all within its power to save her life.  According to the CMD, there was no time the patient while under the hospital’s care, was left unattended to at the Accident and Emergency unit, neither was her family denied timely access to drugs prescribed by the doctors as alleged, since the hospital runs an electronic system and has an active pharmacy where her family would have easily purchased the drugs from.  She noted that the late Kafayat was attended to by two consultants, a cardiolo 2019gist, nephrologist and several other medical officers and health workers, just to ensure that she like every other patient who uses the facility, got the attention and treatment needed.  “We have been trying our best to make sure no patient dies in this hospital due to medical negligence and because of that, I personally monitor all activities in this hospital by myself. Also, I can trust my staff to always do the right things and what they are supposed to do  “We run shifts in this hospital and we run 24-hour services at the Accident and Emergency unit. It is sad that this has happened, but   we are digging deep into the matter to ensure we clear ourselves from all allegations and most importantly, to ensure this incident never occurs in this hospital again.
“All drugs prescribed were available in the pharmacy here in the hospital, and they were all administered to her,” she added.  According to reports, Abdulazeez, the co-founder of Al-imran Islamic Foundation and a health advocate, had left home on Thursday, February 14 for the hospital where she was admitted having been diagnosed of pneumonia.  Although Kafayat regained her strength after the initial treatment, her condition, however, deteriorated the next day with claims being made that the hospital was no longer as responsive as they should have been.  Friends, family and associates who took to their Facebook timelines and other forms of social media to grieve her death, explained that the mobile oxygen which was supposed to be used on her was not used. Equally, the nurses did not give the list of drugs prescribed by her doctors to her family until a day after, when it was too late for the 25-year-old campaigner.