Mr. Seyi Sowemimo (SAN) is the Secretary of the Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria (BOSAN). In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on unending executive interference in the judiciary, anti-graft war of Buhari’s administration, insecurity and sundry issues  The events in the nation’s Judiciary have shown that it is not yet immune from executive interference. What should be done to guarantee the independence of the Judiciary?
One of such things that I think could be done to guarantee the independence of the Judiciary is that there must be self-regulation within the third arm of government. If the Judiciary is self-respective and judicial officers don’t engage in act of corruption, then people will have a lot of respect for the Judiciary to the extent that any attempt by the executive to interfere in its affairs will be stoutly resisted by citizens.
Besides, the independence of the judiciary can also be guaranteed when judges are well paid so that they can close their eyes to politicians’ money. When judges are well paid, they will do their jobs honestly. This is another thing that we need to look at.
I believe judges have a code of conduct, but how far is it being observed? But when you have judges that strictly observe the code of conduct, it would be difficult for them to be compromised by anyone to the extent that there would be no opening that can be exploited by the executive to interfere in the affairs of the judiciary.
If the executive cannot find any opening or some justification like corruption to interfere in the affairs of the judiciary, then its independence will be guaranteed. In the past, Supreme Court Justices lived up to their oath of office; they were self-respective and self-regulatory. They do their jobs without any prompting. This is in sharp contrast to what now attains.
Now, when we are clamouring that the judiciary must be independent, it is also important to state that judicial officers should not see themselves as being above the law. Everyone that has run foul of the law must be brought to justice. I think presently it is the default and the shortcomings in the Judiciary that has given the executive the opportunity to interfere in its affairs. How would appraise the National Judicial Council (NJC) in regulating the affairs of the Judiciary?
When you are talking about the National Judicial Council (NJC), it is not constituted in a way to ensure that it can discharge its functions efficiently and objectively. A situation whereby a sizeable number of members of the NJC were appointed by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) does not help to guarantee the sort of detachment and independence required from them. Obviously, the NJC is not living up to expectations. The composition of NJC has been as it is all along and that was why there have been allegations of corruption and inefficiency all over the years.
NJC has not been effective over the years. That’s the problem. Its composition has been like this for years and that’s why the problem with it has remained. So, something has to be done about the composition of the NJC. We must have a mode of appointing members into the Council without necessarily involving the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN).
For instance, we might have a rotational system of appointing people whom when they reach certain stage in their career automatically sit on the NJC. There is fear that conflicting judgements from courts of coordinate jurisdiction may become an albatross for 2019 general election. How do we arrest this anomaly?
This is part of the problems facing the judiciary. It’s an indication that there are lots of underhand dealings here and there. It shouldn’t be, but when you have a system that is dysfunctional, we cannot but have this kind of issues. Certainly, there is a need for a lot of reforms in the justice sector. This is because these lapses will surely have a negative effect on our electoral process. However, when there are conflicting judgements, INEC is bound to obey them. It is for the parties concerned to take the matter to the next level. If these judgements are coming from the High Court, then, parties will go to the Court of Appeal in order to get more authoritative pronouncement. In other areas where possible, election can also be deferred by INEC because of conflicting judgements. 2018 corruption perception index of Transparency International (TI) ranked Nigeria144th most corrupt country out of the 180 surveyed across the world. What is the implication of this ranking on the graft war of the present administration?
What it suggests is that despite the claims of the present administration, there has not been much improvement in the issue of tackling corruption. Even within the presidency, there hasn’t been much to show that enough has been done to checkmate corruption. It’s only recently that we were told that the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir Lawal and immediate past Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ayo Oke, will be prosecuted. Why is the prosecution of these people taking so long? Many Nigerians also believed the corruption fight has been selective and it has not been pursued fairly. That’s why we are not getting the expected result. Though, I commend government’s efforts but the thing is that we need to go the whole hog and put more action into the whole issue. The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) says upsurge in violent attacks in crisis-ravaged North-East Nigeria has displaced 59,200 people in the last three months. What is the implication of this on Buhari’s war against insurgency?
There have been crisis in virtually everywhere in this country, not only in the North. Despite claims that Boko Haram has been defeated, we all know they have not been defeated. At some point, we have feelings that these insurgents have been defeated but they have since relaunched themselves with renewed vigour in carrying out attacks on people.
Aside insurgency, the country is being confronted with other vices like kidnapping, militancy and the likes, generally lives are not save. Look at what happened in Zamfara state where a sister of a senator was murdered alongside several others by bandits. Do you think the forthcoming election will be peaceful considering the high state of insecurity in the nation at the moment?
Well, I think we only have to keep our fingers crossed. I think INEC is ready and I hope that security operatives will also be on the alert. But, I am afraid there is no way some politicians will not capitalize on the prevailing circumstances to question the credibility of the polls. The dust over new minimum wage is yet to settle as labour is insisting on N30, 000 as against N27, 000 approved by the National Council of State. Do you think labour’s position is justified considering the present economic realities in the country?
The issue of minimum wage is more important to the public sector. A lot of governors have come out to say that they will not be able to afford it. I don’t think it is an issue that the Federal Government can force down the throat of state governors. I think labour need to tread carefully. The N27, 000 as far as I am concerned is a major improvement compared to the old regime of N18, 000. At the moment, many states owe salaries even when minimum wage is N18, 000.
I think, an employer of labour should be allowed to pay what he can afford. I want to advise that labour should agree with the governors on what they could afford at the moment and begin to harp on the fact that the state executives must set their priorities right.
It does not mean that what is agreed today will be there forever. Labour could say at some point in the nearest future, the wage will be increased again when things improve in the states. I think it is better for labour to take what the governors said they can pay now and begin to monitor them up till the point they can afford something more reasonable. What does the alarm recently raised by state governors over arms build-up across the country portends for successful conduct of the 2019 general election?
This portends danger and signifies the desperation with which the elections will be fought. This is simply a wake-up call for the security agencies.