The former vice president has never pretended about occupying the country’s number one position. He first took a shot at the presidency in 1993 and placed third after Chief Moshood Abiola and Babagana Kingibe in the Social Democratic Party (SDP) primaries. He was however elected governor of Adamawa State in 1998. While still Governor-elect, he was selected by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as his running mate and they went on to win the election in February 1999. After his first term as vice president, some governors elected on the platform of the then ruling party plotted to deny Obasanjo a second term. The plan was to hand Atiku the party’s presidential ticket in that year’s general elections, but he opted for a joint a ticket with his principal and both won the election. However, the botched plot pitched him against Obasanjo and the cold war that ensued after their inauguration, degenerated to a bitter political battle by 2006, when Atiku declared his ambition to succeed Obasanjo. Obasanjo’s insistence that Atiku would not succeed him forced the latter to leave the PDP for the defunct Action Congress (AC), which handed him its presidential ticket. Despite securing the party’s ticket, another round of power play led to his exclusion from the final list of 24 candidates for the 2007 presidential election released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). INEC cited Atiku’s indictment for corruption as the reason for the omission. But Atiku headed for the court to challenge his exclusion. The matter got to the Supreme Court, which in a unanimous decision ruled that the electoral body had no power to disqualify any candidate for an election. The judgement paved the way for Atiku to contest the poll, but came a distant third. The election was won by the PDP candidate, late President Umaru Yar’Adua. He rejected the result and called for its cancellation, describing it as Nigeria’s “worst election.” After the 2007 elections, Atiku returned to the PDP in 2009. While his return was initially resisted by his state (Adamawa) state chapter of the PDP, he was granted a waiver by the party’s national leadership. The waiver paved the way for him to contest the 2011 PDP presidential primaries. On November, the Northern Elders Political Leaders Forum (NEPF) led by former Minister of Finance, Mallam Adamu Ciroma, selected him as the region’s consensus candidate over General Ibrahim Babangida, former National Security Adviser (NSA), General Aliyu Gusau and then Kwara State governor, Bukola Saraki (now Senate President). He was however floored at PDP’s presidential primaries alongside Mrs. Sarah Jubril by then Acting President Goodluck Jonathan who later went ahead to win the election. The 2011 defeat did not deter Atiku as he surfaced again 2014 for the 2015 presidency. He had before made good his threat of dumping the PDP should the party’s leadership fail to return it to the vision of its founding fathers with his defection to the then opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). He said of his defection: “As a former Vice President, I am by virtue of the PDP constitution, a member of the party’s Board of Trustees and its National Executive Committee. However, I am not invited to the meetings of those organs nor consulted on their decisions, apparently because I dared to exercise my right to contest in the party’s primary election for a chance to be its flag-bearer in the 2011 elections.” While many believed that Atiku would be the candidate to beat in the December 2014 APC presidential primaries given his financial strength, he lost the ticket to Buhari, who enjoyed the support of party leaders and governors. The contest proved bookmakers wrong as the former vice president came a shocking third with 954 votes, trailing former Kano State governor, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso (974 votes) and Buhari (4,430 votes). Atiku accepted the result and pledged to support the party’s choice in the election, and never reneged though some party accused him during the campaigns of not showing much commitment. But a rumoured 2019 ambition emanated late 2015. It was alleged then that Atiku hosted political meetings in Dubai Dubai, United Arab Emirates, apparently to revive his political machinery ahead of the 2019 presidential election, but the former vice president described the rumour as the handiwork of political mischief makers, who want to draw a wedge between him and President Buhari. Besides denying the 2019 presidential bid, Atiku added that the success of the Buhari administration has been his preoccupation, and that any true APC member should have the same zeal. But, denial being another name for politics, it was not long before the picture became clear that the former vice president will take another shot at the presidency. However, there was a roadblock to this quest – Buhari’s second term bid. This seeming barrier apparently forced Atiku to resign from the APC on November 24, 2017. He hinged his decision on the party’s failure to deliver on its promises to Nigerians, who, according to him, have long been desperate for improved economic interventions. While the former vice president promised then to take time to ponder about his next political move, it was obvious that he would be returning to his former party. This belief manifested, when he formally returned to the PDP and it did not take long before he declared his presidential ambition. South-West, South-East to battle for VP slot     The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has concluded plans to approach former President Olusegun Obasanjo over the 2019 presidential ambition of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar. This is as indication emerged that the South- West and South-East will battle… In "News" Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has, again, turned the beautiful bride ahead of the 2019 general elections as politicians from across the divides struggle for his endorsement. But one that has pitted him against the ruling party is his support for the presidential bid of his former vice, Atiku Abubabar, FELIX… In "Politics" The stage is set for an interesting contest for Nigeria’s number one position in the 2019 general election as President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar square up against each other, Felix Nwaneri reports     The battle line for the 2019 presidency has been drawn between President… In "Politics"