A renewed attack last Friday on Tiv community of Kuduku II by suspected AK 47 wielding Fulani herdsmen in Keana local government area of Nasarawa state has claimed one life forcing thousands of persons displaced. Friday attack comes few months when suspected Fulani herdsmen attacked and killed three persons at  Jimin Nyaku village, a suburb of Keana town without response from security agents in the state. A survivor of the attack, Stephen Dyer whose seven-month-old pregnant wife, Baanever Stephen was killed in the attack told journalists at
Aloshi where he and his is taking refuge,  that he and his two wives were working on the farm when three Fulani men emerged from the bush
and attacked them. He explained that on sighting them, one of the gunmen worked to the middle of the farm and asked them whether they saw some cows around
the farm and in an attempt to respond, the herdsmen pulled out a gun and fired at him but he was able to escape unhurt. Dyer explained that his pregnant wife was not lucky as she was shot dead and her stomach severed by the gunmen leaving her dead in her
the pool of blood. He said that they had just returned from the Internally Displaced Camp (IDP) where they were taking refuge in the wake of the recent herdsmen attack to scout for food on the farm when the attack came. Dyer  who lamented the attack appealed to both the state and federal government, to urgent come to their aid by providing security to their
settlement to enable participants in the forthcoming general election. Another respondent Uhule Edward who fled to  Aloshi along his family members as a result of the  Kuduku attack  told journalists in an
an interview that they decided to flee for their dear lives as a result of the attack. He called on the state government to provide security to the community to enable them to return home and participate in the upcoming elections. An effort to obtain comment on the matter from the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Nasarawa state police command, Ismaila Usman, was unsuccessful as promised to get back to our Correspondent at a later time which he did not at the time of this report.