Do you only love watching sports or do you want to make some money out of it as well? Yes, you can use your sporting knowledge to your benefit, and get to earn money by watching what you love. Football, the world’s most popular sport, has changed lives for many. In Nigeria football is life with millions of people who follow it every day. The most popular team in the Country is the Super Eagles which is the Men's National Team. However, there is a different kind of organization which might not be popular among the masses, but it is one which has a significant impact on the football scene in Nigeria: the Nigerian Amputee team. The Nigerian Amputee team nicknamed the Special Eagles players might be missing a limb due to certain circumstances but one thing is for sure they have a passion for football. It is this passion that led them to participate in a global stage. Last year they took part in the 2018 Amputee World Cup in Mexico. Although they did not win the trophy, it was a big moment for them and the whole country. How has Betway impacted the Special Eagles? Betway Nigeria has embarked on a CSR project by donating unique items to the Nigerian Amputee team. The betting company has partnered together with the sponsors of the five-a-side professional league in Nigeria. The things which were donated are expected to help the team a long way after their appearance in the world cup. However, at that time, it emerged that the team could have missed a chance in their qualification matches due to insufficient funds. The Special Eagles had already missed out on their first three editions despite qualifying for the tournament. One of the people who came through for them was John Mikel who is a Chelsea legend, and other Nigerians came in to support them, and they went to Mexico. Some of the items which were donated by Betway include training kits, aid kits, crutches, balls, nets, bibs, boots, and sports bags. These items will seek to help the Special Eagles during their games and training session. According to the country’s Betway Manager Lere Awokoya, the betting company will continue supporting other special programs and less noteworthy teams who have a passion for sports.