The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has warned security agencies not to interfere in the nation’s electoral process. Atiku who was in Jalingo, Taraba State yesterday, advised them not to allow politicians to destroy their career. “Our security services, you have no business to interfere with our political process, that is not your work. Your work is to make sure that there is peace, law and order. “Your constitutional responsibility is to make sure that we are all safe. Any government that draws the security agencies – the police, the army, the civil defence, that government is doing more harm to your career, it is doing more harm to your patriotism and more harm to yourself,” he said. Atiku assured people of Taraba State that he would complete the Mambilla Hydro Electric Power, as well as reconstruct the federal roads in the state. “Taraba is one of the most endowed states in this country. We are going to exploit the natural resources which is in abundance in Taraba so that you can have prosperity, so that we can bring employment, so that we can create jobs for our teaming men and women,” the PDP candidate promised. He told them that this would be the first time North East would be producing Nigerian president since 1999, and called for them to vote for PDP. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus called for free and fair election, and accused the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed of raising false alarm. “I want to challenge Lai Mohammed to bring his evidence or bury his head in shame. You don’t raise issues without evidence. “We have evidence, two governors from Niger Republic attended APC rally in Kano. We have the pictures. As they moved enmasse from Niger Republic to Kano, we have the evidence. “Other national and international security agencies also have evidence against APC. If you have evidence against the opposition, come out with your evidence,” Secondus said. He accused President Muhammadu Buhari of using military to terrorise people of North East, noting that the military has the constitutional responsibility of territory integrity of the country. As the candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, respectively, criss-cross the country canvassing votes ahead of the February 16 presidential election, it is a plethora of promises to citizenry, FELIX NWANERI reports… In "Politics" President Herbert Hoover did not cause the Great Depression. But his sin was that rather than his policies bringing it to an end — or at least bringing it under control — his policies indeed worsened the whole situation. Even knowing fully well that the fact on the ground… In "Opinions" Former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar said no political party has so far achieved up to 50 percent of what the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has achieved in the 16 years it has been in power. Atiku who returned to PDP after three years sojourn to the ruling All Progressives… In "Top Stories"