…says Nigeria bigger than President  A one- time head, Nigerian Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), Major General Isola Williams (rtd), has said that the 71 retired officers, who were in Aso Vila last week to endorse President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office, were on their own. Brigadier Buba Marwa (rtd) led a group of 71 retired generals, which cut across the services and military administrators to the Presidential Vila, to express their support for Buhari’s second term bid. The list comprised of two Lt –Generals, 13 major generals, two rear admirals, eight Air Vice Marshals (AVM), 12 Brigadier Generals, nine Air Commodores, among others.  Some notable military men in attendance include former president Goodluck Jonathan’s Minister of Police Affairs, Navy Captain Caleb Olubolade and former Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Jubril Ayinla. General Williams, in a telephone chat with Sunday Telegraph, said his former colleagues were in Aso Villa on their own.  “They have a choice to play politics. There are some of them who are in government and serving as ministers. Those of them in Politics belong to one party or the other and loyal to their parties. “Also,” he continued: “Remember that Nigeria is bigger than Buhari and Buhari is not Nigeria. Therefore, they should have weighed the pros and the cons of endorsing Buhari, an individual, instead of looking at what an individual can do for the good of the country.” On Espirit d’Corps, he said they have not violated any law. “This does not form part of the Espirit d’corps, because it is limited to when they are in the service or when there is some form of war and they need to protect each other. Most importantly, they are on their own, they did not represent me for example. In addition to that, there are over 200 retired officers in the country or more. They cannot claim that they represent those generals. 71 of them represented themselves. The Retired Army Navy Airforce Officers Association exists RANAO, they call it. RANAO did not go to Aso Vila. You can see that they are on their own really.” …says Nigeria bigger than President   A one- time head, Nigerian Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), Major General Isola Williams (rtd), has said that the 71 retired officers, who were in Aso Vila last week to endorse President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office, were on their… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid has received another boost with endorsement by retired military officers. The retired officers cut across the three armed forces of Army, Navy and Air Force. New Telegraph learnt that the generals comprise two Lt- Generals, 13 major generals, two Rear Admirals, eight Air Vice Marshals… In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid on Monday received another boost with endorsement by retired military officers. The retired officers cut across the three armed forces of Army, Navy and Air Force. New Telegraph learnt that the generals comprise of 13 major generals, eight Air Vice Marshal (AVM), two Rear Admirals,… In "News"