The endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, by pan Yoruba group, Afenifere, has rekindled the rivalry between the Pa Reuben Fasoranti and Pa Ayo Fasanmi-led factions of the socio-cultural body. BABATOPE OKEOWO reports  The coming together of regional leaders consisting of Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), Middle Belt Forum, Northern Elders Forum to endorse the candidacy of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, may likely shape the outcome of this weekend presidential election.  The regional leaders, at a meeting in Abuja, said the endorsement of Atiku was because of the belief of the candidate in the restructuring of the Nigeria, which the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, are averse to despite the fact that restructuring is clearly in the manifesto of the party.  The involvement of Afenifere in the decision to endorse the PDP candidate despite the fact that Buhari’s running mate and the incumbent vice-president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, is a of the Yoruba stock, angered some other Yoruba leaders, who met in Ibadan, Oyo State capital and passed a counter-resolution endorsing President Buhari as the candidate of the South-West geo-political zone.  The faction met under the leadership of Chief Ayo Fasanmi and denounced the leadership of the mainstream Afenifere led by Chief Reuben Fasoranti for supporting Atiku. Fasanmi’s group mentioned the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, the railway project and others embarked upon by the APC-led Federal Government to justify their claim.  The Ibadan meeting was followed by a campaign rally in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State capital, where speakers including Governor Kayode Fayemi, Pa Fasanmi and the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, disowned Pa Fasoranti as the leader of Afenifere and Yoruba nation.
The endorsement and counter-endorsement by the Afenifere factions, brought to the fore, the crisis that rocked the group shortly after the death of its immediate past leader, Pa Abraham Adesanya.  The battle line was drawn between Fasanmi and Fasoranti, who were contemporaries in the Action Group (AG) and Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN). Since the leadership fell of the laps of Fasoranti in 2003, Pa Fasanmi has stayed away from meetings and activities of the group.  There had not been a dispute over the leadership of Fasoranti as Afenifere leader as prominent Nigerians and Yoruba leaders have visited the nonagenarian in his Akure home. For instance, Tinubu visited the Ijapo house of Fasoranti on November 22, 2017.  At the meeting were former governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande; former South-West National Vice Chairman of APC, Chief Pius Akinyelure; Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu; his deputy, Agboola Ajayi and Ondo State chairman of APC, Engr Ade Adetimehin.  It was after the meeting that Tinubu recognised Pa Fasoranti as leader of Yoruba race. He said: “I am in Akure to acknowledge the leadership of Pa Fasoranti in our own race as a great leader of the Omoluwabi and in this evening, we want him to be happy. He has been a great leader since his youth. His intellect is still very intact. We came to seek his advice, understanding and prayers.”  In his reaction, Fasoranti said the visit would see to the end of leadership crisis in the South-West and allow the Yoruba speaking people to speak with one voice.  Also, former President Olusegun Obasanjo on July 2, 2018, visited Fasoranti in his house. He came with some leaders including Otunba Oyewole Fasawe, to report the threat to his life and alleged plan by the Federal Government to arrest him over false charges. The Afenifere leaders gave him assurance that they will protect him against any threat.  Similarly, many presidential aspirants irrespective of party affiliations visited Fasoranti in his house to seek his blessing and support. The Aare Ona Kankanfo of Yoruba, Gani Adams, and several others have also pledged their loyalty to the leadership of Fasoranti as the leader of Afenifere.  But, the endorsement of Atiku as Afenifere’s presidential candidate has made the Fasanmi group, which has earlier formed Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) and other splinter groups to denounce Fasoranti as leader of Afenifere. Fasanmi’s group described itself as the authentic Afenifere and that the members of the mainstream are impostors.  However, the spokesperson of the mainstream, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, said the group led by Pa Fasanmi is not known to Afenifere. In a statement titled: “Afenifere disowns impostors/Tinubu supporters,” he said the Ibadan meeting where the decision to endorse Buhari was taken was unknown to Afenifere.  The statement read in part: “Afenifere is compelled to make this once and for all denunciation of a group of Tinubu followers who assembled in Ibadan to abuse the name of Afenifere the way Yahoo boys do on the internet claiming to be what they are not to engage in fraudulent activities. We ordinarily would not respond to a gathering of historical renegades but for the sake of the unwary who may have been confused by the nefarious activities of these impostors.  “We say without equivocation that minus Senator Ayo Fasanmi who had a past connection with Afenifere till 2003 and Senator Olabiyi Durojaye who is presently an employee of Buhari, all the others at the summit including Prof Yemi Osinbajo have never been known in Afenifere. If these are Afenifere, they would never have gathered for Buhari’s endorsement in any part of Yorubaland on a day The Nigerian Tribune, the legacy of Awolowo, who is the founder of Afenifere was being re-launched.  “The disdain of this group for Awo legacy is exemplified by the fact that Vice President Osinbajo was in attendance.Here is a man married to Awo’s granddaughter but has absented himself from Awo’s remembrance activities for over three decades. He has never been at an Afenifere meeting for once in his life. He has busied himself in recent years tearing Awo’s thoughts into pieces to impress his masters that he is married into Awo family but he is not of his school of thought.  “Afenifere and mainstream Yoruba reject Buhari not only for his humiliation of Awolowo, our founding leader by the Gestapo invasion of his home as a military tyrant and the locking up of his successor, Pa Adekunle Ajasin, even when no corruption was found him; but also because his rule has been unmitigated disaster for the Yoruba who have lost precious lives to Fulani herdsmen, who have Buhari as their grand patron and not one of them brought to book.  “Life has become unbearable for Yoruba and all Nigerians under Buhari and his second term (God forbid ) will be hell on earth for our people. We tell the Tinubu followers that we don’t deny them the right to support Buhari.I f they call themselves South-West Miyetti Allah, it worries us not. They should only stop the fraudulent claim to Afenifere.”  Giving reasons for PDP candidate’s endorsement at a meeting held on Monday at the house of Fasoranti, Afenifere said the shared commitment of Atiku to restructuring of Nigeria, which will guaranty true federalism; need to promote the feeling of inclusiveness and sense of belonging amongst Nigerians and promote much-desired national patriotism and unity as well as the need to promote economic growth and prosperity were the reasons for its decision.  The group further advanced the need to address the present insecurity in the nation and engender genuine security of lives and property as part of its reasons.  The communiqué signed by Fasoranti, Chiefs Ayo Adebanjo, Olu Falae, Sola Ebiseeni and Senator Femi Okunrounmu, called on Nigerians and all Yoruba people, in particular, to come out en masse and vote for Atiku and Peter Obi of the PDP and to protect their votes in the interest of good governance and life more abundant for all Nigerians.  The communiqué also had harsh words for the Fasanmi group. It read: “We are not unmindful of some impostors parading themselves as Afenifere holding meetings and endorsing General Muhammad Buhari to continue in office as the president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  “These pretenders are doubtlessly not Afenifere members, but as usual, only dubiously seeking to exploit the goodwill and reputation of Afenifere to market their bad political product. Their desperation in this regard is exemplified in the fraudulent printing of campaign posters in the name and picturing Ambassador Dr. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosumu as endorsing Buhari and Osinbajo, which she has since disclaimed.”  Okunronmu who read the communiqué, said the decision not to support APC despite the fact that Osinbajo is a vice president and running mate to Buhari was because he has not been championing the cause of the Yoruba race. His words: “That a person is your son does not mean you support him when he is working against your interest. Osinbajo is working against the interest of Yoruba and our support for Atiku is not the question of Yoruba or Igbo or Hausa, but about somebody that believes in what Awolowo believed in, which is federalism. We advise all Yoruba to come out and vote for Atiku.  “Osinbajo is hanging on the Fulanis to work against Yoruba interest when our people are being killed in their farms by Fulani herdsmen, Osinbajo did not say anything. When we are talking about restructuring, Osinbajo is arguing against restructuring and all the Yoruba want is restructuring. When Osinbajo is working against restructuring, he is not for Yoruba people. So, we cannot support APC because of Osinbajo, who has turned himself to the enemy of Yoruba.” Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-political group, yesterday took a swipe at the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo for not pushing Yoruba agenda with the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government.   The mainstream Yoruba organization said that since the days of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the Yoruba has always canvassed restructuring, true… In "News" Afenifere, the Pan Yoruba Sociopolitical group has taken a swipe at the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo for not pushing Yoruba agenda with the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government. The mainstream Yoruba organization said the Yoruba since the days of Chief Obafemi Awolowo has always canvassed restructuring, true… In "News Around Nigeria" APC: They endorsed Jonathan in 2015 Keyamo: It’s a big fraud   Elder statesmen and leaders of various socio-political organisations across the six geo-political zones, yesterday, endorsed the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar as their consensus candidate for the February 16 presidential elections. They also… In "News"