Over 14,000 tons of pangolin scales have been intercepted by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) from Asian smugglers who have turned Nigeria into transit hub for the illegal trade. BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports  Despite prohibition, Nigerian pangolins have been plundered to near extinction by Chinese and Vietnamese smugglers, as their countries have become new markets for the critically endangered animal.
It was learnt that the animal scales are used in traditional Chinese medicine to cure cancer, relieve palsy and stimulate breast milk. The United Nations chatter on the preservation of endangered species has already banned killing of the animal and has mandated customs administrations globally to protect pangolin from illegal trade.
Also, the provisions of Sections 147 of Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) Cap 45, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 forbid its smuggling.   Market value
It was gathered that the value of illicit trade in pangolin scale from Nigeria to China, Vietnam and other parts of South East Asia in the last one year was N328.5 billion ($900 million) due to high demand.
The scales are priced $3,000 per kilogramme, while live pangolin attracts $1,000 based on black market price. In 2018 alone, NCS made 14,833 metric tons seizure. The Assistant Comptroller at the Federal Operations Unit, Zone A, Ikeja, Mutalib Sule, described pangolin as a harmless African and Asian mammal with body covered with horny overlapping scales. Sule, while delivering a paper on “History of Confiscation, Current Challenges and Opportunities in Combating Pangolin Trafficking in Nigeria,’’ during the 2019 World Pangolin Day, organised by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, Lekki, Lagos and Pangolin Conservation Guild Nigeria, explained that the seizure in Nigeria was the highest in the world while Japan came a distant second having made a seizure of 7.100 kilogrames in the same year with an estimated value of $450, 000.   Vietnam’s report
Also, over eight metric tons of pangolin scales and ivory from Nigeria were seized by Vietnamese authorities last year in one of the Southeast Asian country.
The container, owned by Vietnam’s Thien Truong Su Co., originated from Nigeria, acording to a statement. The raid came days after authorities at Noi Bai International Airport in Hanoi said they seized nearly a ton of pangolin scales hidden in cargo boxes sent from Nigeria.
The Director, Save Vietnam’s Wildlife, Nguyen Van Thai, said that pangolin trafficking had been on the rise over recent years. According to him, “most of pangolin scales seized in Vietnam originate from Nigeria and other African countries and are bound for China, which is the bigger market.” Thai said some Vietnamese people believed that consuming ground pangolin scales is good for their health, particularly for issues with the liver, bones, and for mothers to produce milk for newborn babies.   Seizures The assistant comptroller-general of NCS said that people engaged in illicit trade of pangolins because of benefits. He recalled that FOU patrol team went to a building located along Allen Avenue and confiscated 54 sacks of pangolin scales weighing 2,001kilogrammes in February last year.
Sule said that another 329 sacks of pangolin were discovered and evacuated, weighing 8.492 metric tons in March 2018. “A second visit there gave us 78 sacks of pangolin of 1,771 metric tons. Also on July 22, 2018, around Lekki in Lagos, 21 sacks of pangolin and four pieces of elephant tusks were found stashed in a shop, ” he said.
Similarly, he noted the service swooped on some Chinese nationals suspected to be engaging in the illicit trade last August last and intercepted 738 metric tons stacked in 10 sacks. Last year, NCS’s Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone A in Lagos arrested a Chinese, Mr. Ko Sin Ying, in connection with sacks of pangolin shells valued at N493.5 million. Its Comptroller, Mohammed Uba Garba, who said that the export of such endangered species of pangolin breaches international protocols and conventions, noted that the 55 sacks of pangolin shells weighed 2001 kilogrammes and valued at N408.32 million.
The comptroller said that the items were evacuated from an apartment at Ogundana Street, off Allen Avenue, Ikeja by the Customs’ warehouse operations team led by Assistant Comptroller Mutalib Sule. Mohammed noted that the team, acting on intelligence received, mounted surveillance on the area and on tip-off, raided the apartment.
He stressed that the items had been handed over to the Nigerian Environment Standards and Regulatory Enforcement Agency (NESREA) for further investigations. Mohammed said that such collaboration would protect the natural habitat and the endangered species.  Prosecution He said that two Chinese, Mr. Shu Xiang Quan and Mr. Wu Sheng, who were arrested for storing and exporting the prohibited items, had been charged to court. Also charged with the Chinese was a Nigerian, Mr. Ugochukwu Frank, before Justice Mohammed Hassan of the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos.
Already, he said that the three suspects had been remanded in Ikoyi Prison for trial.  The comptroller recalled that in the same month, the service arrested another Chinese, Mr. Li Chaomin in connection with huge pangolin scales packed in 329 sacks with a duty-paid value of N1.73billion in Opebi, Lagos.
However, Chaomin said that he got approval from Chinese Government to export the banned goods from Nigeria. According to him, after several efforts to obtain permission from the Ministry of Environment to export the animal scales failed, he contacted his country.  Last line Government should encourage wildlife researchers in the country to create special zoo for pangolin.