The Federal Government and the relevant security agencies have been charged to protect Nigerians irrespective of their party affiliation, following violence acts that trailed last weekend’s elections. Former president of Igbo think tank group, Aka Ikenga, Chief Goddy Uwazurike, who gave the charge yesterday in Lagos, particularly said the relative peace enjoyed by the residents of Lagos and Rivers states should not be shattered by the agents of destabilization. In a statement he titled: “The gathering of agents of the devil,” Uwazurike said: “They have further threatened mayhem on the hapless residents of the two states. The grievance of the men of evil is that the residents were exercising their fundamental right to vote for the candidates of their choice. Of course, the thugs also known as the hatchet men were mere puppets in the hands of the puppet masters. “The new threat is in the amorphous plan to attack the markets and other places of business. This must be condemned by all men of goodwill! Election, without the free-dom to choose, will always be a sham! “The threat to the residents of the two states must be nipped in the bud. The security agencies are hereby called to protect the citizens, not withstanding their party affiliation. The new threat cannot be allowed to crystalize into violence. The battle cry should be live and let live. The residents have lived peacefully together and this must not be sacrificed at the altar of political expediency. The President, the governors and indeed, the security network must rise to the occasion to protect us. Failure to defend the citizenry is nothing but an invitation to anarchy! This scenario is dreadful and the Federal government of Nigeria must act now. The world is watching! A stitch in time saved nine. Let’s learn from history. “The hottest part of hell is reserved for those who sit on the fence while evil rides roughshod over the people! The constitution of the country must be implemented by the government. The residents are not at war! Only the few misguided people are doing everything to destroy us. This must not happen!”