I have said several times in my sermons that God loves rewarding people who render service to him. As I always put it “if one is busy doing God’s thing, God gets busy doing one’s thing.” My greatest strength for this position comes from the Scriptures in Luke 1: 4-12. “There was in the days of Herod, king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia; and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth…….. And they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both now well stricken in years. And it came to pass that while he executed the priest’s office before God in the order of his course; According to the custom of the priest’s office – his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of people was praying without at the time of incense. “And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled and fear fell upon him. But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shall call his name John.” KJV. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State stands today in the place that Zacharias stood; he may not be a priest, but I saw him doing the work of a priest and it pleased God to appear to him and reward him by removing opposition in his second term bid. The Supreme Court in a unanimous decision on February 8, upheld the annulment by the Appeal Court of the governorship primaries conducted by a faction of Rivers State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), saying it was fraught with irregularities. The exercise had produced Tonye Cole as the party’s governorship candidate for the March 9, election, earlier scheduled for March 2. The annulment of the primaries implied that APC, the main opposition party in Rivers State, would have no governorship candidate in the election, meaning that Governor Wike will be unopposed, in spite of candidates of the smaller parties.I actually saw this coming, (Divine reward for Wike) during the four-day Daniel Kolenda (Evangelist Reinhard Bonnke successor’s) Gospel crusade, which the governor hosted in the city of Port Harcourt, from November 8-11, 2018. The state government did not only foot the bill of that unprecedented Port Harcourt crowd, but also ensured its full presence throughout the four days of the event. It was really fascinating to see the governor with the Christian leaders on the platform, singing their Jesus Saves songs, worshipping with closed eyes and both hands raised towards the open heavens. The governor was always accompanied by his wife; his deputy Ipilabo Banigo, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national chairman, Uche Secondus, some members of the Rivers State cabinet and other top politicians and government appointees. Wike and his team daily arrived the new sandfield ground on LNG/Eastern By-Pass, venue of the crusade quite early. He cheerfully took part in all crusade activities and left with his entourage at the close of event. He did not ask for votes or solicit for support. He was in crusade to worship God. However, on the last night of the crusade, Governor Wike, full of hope and exuding inexplicable joy from the heart, told the mammoth crowd, “It is very difficult for anyone to convince me about anything but I must say that I felt my life being different each day that I attended this crusade. This is more than crusade. I call it revival.” He went on: “I am now fortified like a lion against Satan and enemies of Rivers State. When Satan shall come knocking at my door, Jesus Christ shall come out to meet him. Satan will say to Jesus, “I am sorry, I missed road.” The governor was able to say those words of faith because his heart was in the crusade. I believe that he enjoyed every minute of the time that he was in God’s presence. He was really confident that God was by him. Rivers State is a praying community. It is blessed with long standing and big time Christians and Christian leaders that have continually lifted Port Harcourt city and the entire state unto God in prayer. In the state, prayer for political leaders, the governor, his cabinet and the Body of Christ does not wane. I see the judiciary’s removal of the state’s main opposition candidate (APC candidate) from the Rivers State 2019 governorship election as being clearly the finger of God and reward for Wike’s commitment to the furtherance of the gospel in the state. It is answer to the quantum of prayer offered for peace in Rivers State. One of the first things Wike did when he was elected governor in 2015 was to appoint God-fearing men and women to join him and deputy governor Banigo, a pastor, in the cabinet. Among them was Bishop Winston Iwo, a father to Rivers State Christians and bishop of Grace Covenant Ministries, Port Harcourt, who is serving as special adviser to Wike on Religious Matters. There is Pastor Rufus Godwins, head of Rivers State Civil Service, to mention just two.  ●Akpaekong is a pastor and former senior associate editor of Newswatch.