Attention will be focused today on Rivers and Zamfara states in the conduct of the Presidential and National Assembly elections across the country. This is because the avalanche of post-primary election court cases had risen to 639 before the commencement of the polls. Surprisingly, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as the electoral umpire was saddled with a lot of cases, which meant that it had to contend with over 584 cases before it in the run-off to today’s election. While this fact remains a disturbing trend, the number of aggrieved contestants, who want the release of their certified original copies of documents to pursue their cases in court, appears to have given the entire issue a more disturbing dimension. From all indications, the disputes are largely centred on primaries conducted by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in state assemblies, National Assembly and governorship positions, with Rivers, Zamfara, Ogun and Enugu states, regarded as the most affected. While this ‘constitutional challenge’ may have had its attendant effect on the roles expected of INEC, pundits believe that the controversies arising from this avalanche of court cases has elicited a host of other controversies. But as INEC would advance, it decided to follow the dictates of its extant rules on the time frame to conduct primaries and obey court rulings by removing candidates of the APC from its March 2 polls in Rivers and Zamfara states, where the battles have been most vociferous. The situation in Rivers is too critical with two factions laying claim to the leadership of the party in the state, which resulted in both factions going to court for INEC’s recognition and approval while in Zamfara, the situation is so dicey and cumbersome. The INEC is, however, in a dilemma, especially with the Court of Appeal’s ruling staying execution of an earlier judgement that barred it from putting APC’s candidates on its list. Perhaps, these acts portend grave danger to the conduct of the polls in the two states, where their chief gladiators are believed to be part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s ruling party’s henchmen. With March 2 around the corner, fundamental issues have arisen: Will INEC obey Supreme Court ruling that nailed the ruling APC’s coffin or will there be a sense of déjà vu? INEC has to a large extent obeyed court orders in these avoidable debacles, even though the litigations before the electoral umpire appear to be many. Like one pundit rightly said, time is of essence, especially for INEC which implies that its legal department should be more than be prepared in handling pre-election and post-election litigations without fear or favour. Even before the first ballot for the 2019 general elections is cast, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has already lost governorship election in Rivers and Imo states. The party’s chances in Ogun and Imo states were also threatened following the refusal of outgoing APC governors in the two states to… In "News" …excludes APC in Zamfara, Rivers APC, Yari: We’ll be on the ballot   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has cleared 1,066 candidates for the March 2 governorship election. Also, 14,583 candidates have been cleared for the state House of Assembly elections while 105 and 701 candidates will contest… In "News" There were strong indications last night that the crises trailing the conduct of the All progressives Congress (APC) governorship, senatorial and House of Representatives primaries may be far from been resolved. Investigations conducted by Saturday Telegraph across the states reveal that while the National working Committee (NWC) of the ruling… In "News"