Ahead of today’s elections, Wizkid has aired his views on political issues being debated about who’s the best candidate to lead Nigeria out of the doldrums.
You may well recall that Davido publicly stated his preferred candidates for the elections and even revealed that although he is being threatened over his political disposition he remains fearless.
In a recent post shared on his Snapchat, Wizkid advised Nigerians not to sell their votes and to vote wisely.
He warned that no one should vote a candidate endorsed by celebrities because they have been paid for it. He urged Nigerians to vote any presidential candidate who is capable of thinking and would move the country forward.
The ‘Fever’ singer also warned leaders of the country to live up to their responsibility to serve the people.
His words partly read: “Don’t let anyone wey don collect money influence your vote to tell you who’s right or not. Use your head. Vote wisely, I’m for whoever the people vote. If you’re old to vote, you’re old enough to think.Don’t sell your vote, your vote can make a difference.
“And politicians wey they enter stop joking with people’s lives! You are responsible for the lives of millions of people and your decision affects all. Help us make Nigeria a better place, make una use your head. One love!” Afropop star, Ayo ‘Wizkid’ Balogun, has asked Nigerian politicians to stop joking with people’s lives. The music star expressed his thoughts on his Snapchat page recently. “Politicians stop joking with people’s lives. You are responsible for the lives of millions of people and your decision affects all. Help make Nigeria… In "Arts & Entertainments" Yakubu: We don't sell, buy votes •Saraki, Dogara warn against malpractices   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, said that it had introduced a new measure on ballot paper handling at polling units to check vote buying in the 2019 general elections. The Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood… In "Politics" Despite the huge campaign against vote-buying by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the National Orientation Agency (NOA), some Nigerians, across political party divides, are yet to desist from the illegal act, checks by Saturday Telegraph have revealed. However, those involved in the dastardly act are no… In "News"