Two days to the much-anticipated Presidential election, a group, the Movement for Actualization of Campaign Promises, MACP, has called on Nigerians not to succumb to the massive propaganda of some political parties. In a statement on Thursday, the group said there was a need to alert the general populace to ensure they do not succumb to massive propaganda, lies and distortions of facts by the  People’s Democratic Party.
The group alleged that the main opposition party,  the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, as the party had failed to deliver on its promises in the past. MACP decried that the Nigerian Airways and the country’s massive Nitel and the railways were killed through the sharp practices of the PDP in power for 16 years from 1999 to 2015 when Nigerians booted them out, adding that despite the bare facts and proofs, the PDP still wanted Nigerian to see their vote that brought in the APC as a mistake. “With the kind of eagerness, desperation and hunger of the PDP as demonstrated at their campaign grounds and public comments therefore, it becomes curious the motive, mission and agenda of the PDP as a party in their quest to get back to power. Till today, all public comments, body language and activities of the PDP as a party had further reinforced their known stand that there is nothing like corruption in Nigeria,” the group said. “As a Non-government organization, we have watched closely and seen the need to quickly and painfully too, assist the Nigerian electorate in their choice of candidate(s) come February 23rd especially for now. PDP cannot and should not be the alternative to the present APC led government which through our field survey has practically done well and much more in three and a half years compared to the 16 years of the PDP which her leadership is trying hard to make Nigerian forget its misruled. “As a result, we have realized as a non-government organization how the PDP has on several occasions championed the campaign that none of her members are corrupt in the land. We have therefore decided to tell the PDP and of cause its ambitious flag bearer (Atiku Abubakar especially) to go back home and purge themselves of all negative utterances and their underestimation of the Nigerian people for the next 16 years before it could come back on same name to beg Nigerian for vote,” it stated. Goodluck Jonathan, Nigeria's former president has taken a swipe at the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), saying even if a party wins through propaganda, it can not govern with it. Mr Jonathan spoke when he received leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Yenagoa on Friday. Jonathan said the… In "Lead Stories" Babatope Okeowo   The National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-West geopolitical zone, Dr Eddy Olafeso said yesterday that the Senator Ali-Modu Sheriff’s faction of the party in the zone would not be seen as members of the party until they had purged themselves of… In "News" ...says party can’t fool Nigerians any longer   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the new National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole lacked moral rectitude to speak in public as a leader until he cleared himself of corruption allegation against him. The party also advised him… In "News"