 FELIX NWANERI reports on the twist and turns in the move by members of the Lagos State Assembly to impeach Governor Akinwunmi Ambode over alleged gross misconduct and violation of the constitution, especially for spending from the 2019 budget that was yet to be laid on the floor of the House   An impeachment proceeding, the world over is a serious legislative business because of its appreciation as a technique for the function of the Principle of Checks and Balances in a democracy. As a containment device, the exercise of this constitutional right by the legislative arm of government is intended to ensure that the executive – a president or governor – functions within the realm of the constitution. In Nigeria, the 1999 Constitution (as amended), in Section 188, copiously provides for a detailed procedure to be followed before a governor could be impeached. This procedure is sequential and must be duly followed. It is a chain of events, which must not be broken at any stage. The section provides that a state governor or deputy governor may be removed from office whenever a notice of any allegation in writing signed by not less than one-third of the members of the House of Assembly stating that the holder of such office is guilty of gross misconduct in the performance of the functions of his office with detailed particulars of the alleged gross misconduct specified. Further, section 188(11) states that “gross misconduct” means a grave violation or breach of the provisions of this Constitution or a misconduct of such nature as amounts in the opinion in the House of Assembly to gross misconduct.It was this constitutional provision that the Kaduna State House of Assembly relied on, when it impeached the then governor of the state, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, on June 23, 1981. The move, which largely surprised political observers then, saw Musa being thrown out of office barely two years in power. Since then, the gale of impeachment has continued to sweep across the polity with governors, speakers and even local government chairmen as casualties. Among governors, who have been impeached are Ayo Fayose, who was impeached as governor of Ekiti State on October 16, 2006, over alleged mismanagement of public funds and serial killings and Peter Obi, impeached as governor of Anambra State on November 2, 2006, over alleged gross misconduct. Others were Joshua Dariye, impeached as governor of Plateau State on November 13, 2006 over alleged siphon of public funds and money laundering; Rashidi Ladoja, impeached as governor of Oyo State on January 12, 2006, over abuse of office; Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, impeached as governor of Bayelsa State on December, 9 2005, over alleged corruption, abuse of office and money laundering and Murtala Nyako, impeached as governor of Adamawa State in 2014 over alleged corruption, abuse of office and money laundering. Perhaps, the incumbent governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode, would have been added to the list, but for the intervention of his benefactor and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in the stand-off between him and members of the state House of Assembly. The state legislator had at their plenary session penultimate Monday, taken turns to accuse the governor of gross misconduct and violation of the constitution, especially for spending from the 2019 budget that was yet to be laid on the floor of the House. Consequently, the lawmakers insisted that the governor and two of his commissioners should appear before them within seven days or risk impeachment. The move generated ripples and was supposed to come up for consideration at yesterday’s sitting of the House after the expiration of the seven-day ultimatum given to the governor by the lawmakers, but speaking on behalf of APC leaders in the state, Tinubu said the executive and the legislative arms of government have resolved to work together in the interest of the state. Tinubu’s words: “We held a meeting on behalf of Lagos, the entire Lagosians, our party – APC leadership. In the last one week, there has been noise about the conflict between the executive and the State Assembly. It is of great concern to all of us, and particularly what Lagos represents across the country. “We have been able to look into the source of various conflicts, which is not uncommon in politics; what is the genesis of those problems? We are one big family and as a big family, you will have some rumples, you will have some disagreements. As leaders of the party, we have looked into that; we have looked into areas where we have to compromise, discuss and build the institutions, encourage the institutions to really do what is right. “We have resolved that there is no question of impeachment in Lagos State. Let the two arms of government communicate and continue to respect one another and build consensus and understanding. That is all about politics. Conflict and conflict resolution mechanism is inbuilt in any political system unless leaders are lacking in their responsibilities.” Tinubu, who seized the opportunity to commend Governor Ambode, his deputy, Idiat Adebule and the leadership of the House for agreeing to the peaceful resolution of the conflict, said it was evident that the consequences of allowing such conflict to fester would have been dire not just for the state, but the entire country. “We thank the Speaker and the entire members of the House of Assembly leadership. We thank the governor and the deputy governor who had demonstrated firm respect for the party’s leadership in Lagos State. You know when Lagos sneezes, the rest of the political equation catches cold and we are very happy that we are able to resolve amicably. The deputy speaker is also here and all of them put together, we are assured that things will start to run smoothly in Lagos both the House and the government,” he said. The meeting was attended by both the executive and legislative arms represented by Governor Ambode, Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule; Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa; Deputy Speaker, Wasiu Eshinlokun; Majority Leader, Sinai Agunbiade; Chief Whip, Rotimi Abiru, among other principal officers of the Assembly. Others were all the members of the Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision making organ of the party in the state; governorship candidate of the party in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Femi Hamzat, among others. Ambode had since his lost of the APC governorship ticket to Sanwo-Olu in the party’s primaries on October 2, 2018, been on the spotlight and an impeachment would have been a death nail to his political career. Tinubu had ahead of the primary election declared that the governor has deviated from the developmental blueprint of Lagos and urged members of the party to vote against his second term bid. In Ambode’s stead, the APC national leader, who led Lagos State between 1999 and 2007, endorsed Sanwo-Olu, then the Managing Director of Lagos State Property Development Corporation (LSPDC). While the APC national leader hinged his decision on Ambode’s deviation from the Lagos development blueprint, the governor’s “sin,” it was alleged, was that he cut off those who helped him to power in 2015, immediately he assumed office. It is an open secret that Tinubu anointed him to succeed then Governor Babatunde Fashola and mobilized both men and resources to ensure his victory. Though the governor put up a spirited fight to secure a ticket for a second term, those in the know then opined that there was no way the APC leader will not have the last laugh. They reasoned that Tinubu remains an enigma that has come to bestride Lagos political space. This, perhaps, explained why it didn’t take much effort for the former Lagos governor popularly referred to “Jagaban” by his admirers, to put a stop to the second term bid of his godson. A statement few hours to primaries, in which he claimed that the blueprint of Lagos State, his brainchild between 1999 and 2007, has been deviated from by Ambode, was what he needed to do the magic. The statement was on the heels of Ambode’s televised press conference ahead of the APC governorship primary, in which he launched a barrage of personal attacks against Sanwo-Olu. The governor did not only ridicule his contender for spending fake dollars in the United States for which he was arrested and having mental health issues, he proclaimed him (Sanwo-Olu) as unfit for governor. But, Tinubu, who defended his choice, said: “I am encouraged by the emergence of a candidate in this primary, who has served the state in senior positions in my administration, the Fashola administration and even in the current one. While possessing a wealth of experience and exposure, he is a young man endowed with superlative vision and commitment. Most importantly, he understands the importance of the blueprint for development. “He esteems it as a reliable and wellconceived vehicle for the future development of the state. He also knows the value of reaching out and working with others in order to maximize development and provide people the best leadership possible. With people like him at the helm, the state will write the proper history for itself.” Tinubu’s declaration, no doubt, marked an end to his godson’s second term bid as Sanwo-Olu defeated the governor in the primaries by 970,851 votes to 72,901, and with the result, the Lagos governor joined the likes of former Governors Chinwoke Mbadinuju and Malla Kachala, who lost second term bids at the primaries. Since then, several questions over Ambode’s next political move have cropped up given the twist in fortune. While the governor is the only one who can determine his next move, there is no doubt that he would be conscious of the fact that politics is a game of the possible in which a decline in fortune cannot be ruled out after office, before deciding on his next move. Many have expounded several options, with some even insisting that it is over for the governor’s political future given the way he dared Tinubu. But, given the way, the governor, unlike most politicians, who think more about the security of their seats than the security of their nations, accepted defeat, it is unlikely that the gloomy political future will play out. For instance, Ambode, not only congratulated Sanwo-Olu on his victory, but also thanked the APC leadership and Tinubu, among other stakeholders, while enjoining Lagosians to support theparty’s gubernatorial candidate in the March 2, election. Besides support for Sanwo-Olu, the governor has started looking at postgovernorship era as he assured of his commitment to a smooth transition. “As governor, I will do everything possible to ensure a smooth transition in the remaining period of this administration and ultimately to the new governor, come May 2019. While there have been arguments for and against Ambode working his talk in this regard, there is no doubt that his show of statesmanship so far despite his loss, perhaps, explains Tinubu’s intervention in the impasse between him and members of the state Assembly.