 The pan Yoruba socio- political group, Afenifere, yesterday described the reaction of the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) militants threat to blow up pipelines should the Federal Government rig today’s election as an extreme position. Afenifere’s declaration is coming on the heels of a call by the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF), to the militants to desists from destroying national assets in the name of unsubstantiated claims. Similarly, the leadership of the Arewa Youth Forum (AYF), the umbrella organisation of youths across the 19 northern states, stated that the Avengers were raising unnecessary tension. However, the mainstream Yoruba group said it was the state of the polity and the fear of subverting the will of the people that informed the militants taking such ex-treme position. Spokesman for Afenifere, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, said the best way to prevent such extreme position is to allow the will of the electorate of the country to prevail. Odumakin said it was the will of the people that brought the present crops of leaders into office four years ago and if the preponderance of opinion was for them to leave the stage in 2019, they should not subvert the will of the people. According to him, the threat of violence and body bags from All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders must have pushed the Niger Delta militants to take such extreme position. He said the coming of international community into the country and their stance in ensuring credible election is a welcome development and should send signal to those who wanted to manipulate the election. Odumakin said some people may not threaten such extreme position but may take action that could lead to wanton destruction of lives and properties if the will of the people of the country is subverted. In the same vein, AYCF’s President, Alhaji Yerima Shetimma, in an exclusive interview with Saturday Telegragh, said: “I don’t think that is a right decision. We can’t continue to destroy our national assets in the name of protects against certain decision in the country. “Let us not pre-empt that they are going to rig the election. Let us assume the election will be free and fair. If you look at the media, locally and international, people are making statement about Nigeria election and the world are watching. “There are better way to deal with issues than destroying our national assets. So, I want them to have a rethink about their decision. Let us not forget that if that happened, somebody will use Nigeria’s money to put in place. Let them show solidarity. “This is the moment of protecting our assets. It is national asset; it not the property of anybody. Let Nigeria move forward. They must not bomb these assets.” Meanwhile, AYF’s President, Abdulhamid Bello, “Ordinarily elections are meant to be free and fair and we have no doubt that this particular process will be free and fair. “We want to say that this agitation and threat by the Avenger is not necessary and uncalled for. We are saying this because we had had cause to meet with the INEC officials and they have put us through the process they have laid down for the exercise and we believe that those processes are water tight to deliver a free and fair election across the country. “Our problem in Nigeria is that people just agitate and raise unnecessary tension. Before anything would happen, people have started agitating and raising unnecessary tension. Under normal circumstances, we should allow things happen before we react.” ...asks court to revoke IPOB leader's bail   Group warns against Kanu's arrest ACF hails quit notice withdrawal   The Federal Government yesterday asked the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja to revoke the earlier bail granted the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu. The… In "News" Following the controversy trailing the arrest and detention of some suspects over recent clash between Yoruba residents and their Hausa neighbours in Ile-Ife, Osun State, the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF), has urged the judiciary to let justice take its full course in the case, without bowing to ethnics pressure.… In "Metro and Crime" On June 6, 2017, a Coalition of Northern Youth Groups gave an October 1 deadline for Igbo natives to quit the North for their homesteads in the South-East zone of the country. It was at a well-attended and publicised "world press conference" at the Arewa House in Kaduna. The youth… In "Editorial"