If only on account of Teni the Entertainer, many more fans are now familiar with the name, Dr. Dolor, the producer and businessman who owns the record label the award-winning “Uyo Meyo” singer calls home, Dr Dolor Entertainment. Born Osadolor Nate Asemota, Dr Dr. Dolor, who featured Teni in his song, “Rambo”, is of the view that aspiring artistes to arm themselves with sufficent knowledge as well as the right attitide in this interview with ADEDAYO ODULAJA.   Many feel the Nigerian music industry is saturated at the moment. Do you share this view?
Whether the music industry is saturated or not, depends on which angle you’re looking at it from. I’d rather say the music business is growing in Nigeria because we’re beginning to see a lot of independent artistes spring up which is a good thing but the question is do they have the right platform?
Typically what happens in this market today is that you’ll see a lot of people that are actually talented but don’t know the right channel to push their content so the majority of them go to the likes of Alaba International and even pay those guys to put their content on the CD printer be it audio or video so people can buy. So we have a lot of artistes however I don’t want to call it saturation because their music isn’t heard yet. That would mean you are totally in support of the record label structure which is supposed to make it easier for the artistes?
When an artiste is on a record label, it makes it easier because the bulk of the work is done by the label. As an artiste you’re supposed to be focused on thinking creatively on how you can put out good content, and all the work that surrounds the artiste putting out good content shouldn’t be what the artiste concerns themselves with. Their focus should be on what they want to create in the studio by ensuring the producer creates the right kind of beat, release what they have in their heads and put out the right content, the rest is for the record label to worry about, including marketing through the right platforms, shooting videos, and ensuring the music gets recognition both locally and internationally. Would you say the Nigerian music terrain is headed in the right direction, its peak?
I think we’re moving at the right pace. Music is big and diverse, it also cuts across all religion and ethnicity it’s like watching football and how it brings everybody together, that’s how music cuts through divides and barriers. So I think music in this market is still growing because there’s still a lot of work we need to do. To take it to the next level we need to see more multinationals coming in to support the industry because it’s a big and growing business. As a label owner what makes the artiste successful?
There are two things one should look out for in an artiste that wants to be successful. The first thing is the talent, then the right attitude to work. The artiste has to have the right attitude to work due to the challenges we have in the country in terms of infrastructure. The third thing is the platform, the platform could be the person who’s financing you or it could be your label. I don’t want to call names but there are some really dope artistes but the issue with them is their attitude, these guys have amazing talent but they’re not as big as one would expect them to be. Why do you think attitude is what’s holding them back?
If we’re sitting in this boardroom with a multinational or a corporate body and we want to throw an end of year party and we want to get a music artiste as an ambassador, the first thing we’re going to look out for is the talent or popularity, the second thing we’ll look out for is what kind of image does the person represent? Is it someone we feel we can position as a brand ambassador? If it is someone that has a lot of negativity like having criminal records or temperament problems and stuff like that you wouldn’t want to endorse that kind of person especially in the market here in Nigeria, unlike the western world where they look at your talent and overlook certain things but here you have to have a 360. You have to have the talent, the attitude and the right team pushing you. Is there any way this relates to an experience you have had?
I’ll use my artiste, Teni, as an example, she’s talented and the whole world knows she has the right attitude. As a professional artiste she’s new, less than two years, so far she’s doing well because she has the right attitude to work. What are labels doing in this country to scout for the next artistes?
It depends on the objective of the label, it also depends on their budget. First of all, what I look out for is if the artiste has the talent, the next thing is if you have social media presence, yes you can sing or whatever but what have you been doing for yourself with that talent while you’ve been on your own? I can easily pick you out from your social media platform. If you say you’re selling clothes are you putting out the different kinds of clothes you’re selling or if you’re selling food are you showing the different types of food you say you’re selling? It’s the same thing as an artiste, are you putting out content on your social media to show people how talented you are? Are you building a fan base? My point is that if you say you’re talented you have to put out your content for people to see. So what you’re saying is that the artistes must have done considerable work?
Yeah, it shows how hungry you are as an artiste, it means that you really have passion for what you’re doing, These are some of the things that drive me to sign an artiste. I want to see the drive and the hunger in what you’re doing. So if you’re hungry for it that’s the line I want to see you follow not that you’re doing it part time but with a main job.
There are many limitations here, it’s not so easy for the labels. I just feel like our music hasn’t cut across yet. Part of the reason is that internally we’re not getting full support that we should be getting especially from the media. For example the independent artistes, who are talented and have good content but how often do the radio stations, the TV stations play this content? They’d rather focus on foreign music. When I’m in the States or London it’s very rare that they play something that’s foreign. But don’t you think that’s changing?
It’s changing but it still hasn’t got there yet especially with the TV. NBC should increase the quota to 95% of local content than foreign content because we can go to YouTube to easily listen to the foreign content but for the one we’re paying subscription for should be reserved for local content so it would encourage upcoming artistes, the independent artistes. We need more of that from our local media, we need for them to start supporting our independent artistes. What do you think should be the focus in terms of the next phase of development?
There’s a lot of things we need to put in place, I just gave an example of independent artistes having a platform in order for them to get their material out for the whole world to hear but for some reason the majority of them don’t know the right route to go about it, so they do it the old fashioned way of connections where Mr. A knows Mr. B who knows Mr. C that’s going to plug their music for them. To hit the nail on the head we need to start building our own music platforms in terms of distribution.
Our infrastructure needs to be localized where it’s easy for independent artistes to upload their music into a local platform that will spread their music internationally. The second thing is that a lot of these new artistes don’t understand the music business, they think having talent is enough to carry them but they’re not familiar with money made from song writing or publishing, if you don’t do publishing for your content someone else can lift that song and make money from it at your expense.
We can have the same localized platform that can spread and market your music internationally, handle publishing as well so independent artistes can make more money from their own music and stop others from making money from it illegally.