…says corruption threatening presidential poll, democracy  President Muhammadu Buhari has raised the alarm of fresh threats to the presidential election scheduled to hold on Saturday, February 16. The President said reliable evidence gathered by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) revealed that those who have looted Nigeria’s treasury, now with huge resources at their disposal, are planning to undermine the credibility of the election through vote buying. Buhari stated this yesterday in a statement, which he personally signed, urging Nigerians to participate massively in the forthcoming presidential election. He said: “By way of their looting, the corrupt have powerful resources at their disposal. And they will use them. For when you fight corruption, you can be sure it will fight back. “It even threatens to undermine February’s poll and – by extension – our democracy. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has raised concerns over laundered money being funnelled into vote buying. “This problem of corruption writ large. It illustrates how it lurks in all and every crevice of public life, manipulating due process in pursuit of self-preservation and perpetuation; protecting personal political and economic interests at the expense of the common good.” He said that the choice before voters on Saturday is whether to continue on the path of his government which has laid the foundation for fighting corruption or revert to the past old days. “The choice before voters is this: Do we continue forward on this testing path against corruption? Or do we revert to the past, resigned to the falsehood that it is just the-way-things-are-done? Or that it is just too difficult – too pervasive – to fix? I know which one I would choose. It is why I am asking Nigerians for another four years to serve them,” he added. The President promised to end corruption in the country if voted for another four-year term on Saturday. According to him, a policy programme that does not have fighting corruption at its core is destined to fail. The President said his government would continue to follow due process in pursuit of the anti-corruption war despite resistance from those who are affected by the change mantra. Buhari said that following due process in the fight against corruption was necessary to ensure that allegations never take the place of evidence. “A Yoruba proverb states that only the patient one can milk a lion. Likewise, victory over corruption is difficult, but not impossible. We must not flounder in our resolve. I know many Nigerians would like to see faster action. So do I. But so too must we follow due process and exercise restraint, ensuring allegation never takes the place of evidence,” he said.He explained that those who have criticised his administration’s anti-corruption drive are those who oppose its mission. His words: “There is no doubt that this administration has changed the way we tackle corruption. Concrete progress has been made, but there is still much to do. “The battle against graft must be the base on which we secure the country, build our economy, provide decent infrastructure and educate the next generation.” Buhari said that in the last three and a half years, he has tried to judiciously exercise the trust vested in him to combat the problems of corruption, insecurity and an inequitable economy, with corruption standing above the other two programmes. The President further said that while the government pursues the anti-corruption war, those involved in it continue to device new means of invading the law. “Once the enablers are let in – as they have been in the past – the greed of those they collude with grows. But as I have intensified our war on corruption, so we have found that corruption innovates to resist the law. This is not the sole domain of those Nigerians, but the international corruption industry: the unsavoury fellow traveller of globalisation. “Corruption corrodes the trust on which the idea of community is founded, because one rule for the few and another for everyone else is unacceptable to anyone working honestly,” the President stated. President Buhari also said that the government has succeeded in closing the doors at fraudulent persons who are yet desperate to open the gates of corruption with the intention of looting the national treasury. “We have repatriated hundreds of millions of dollars stowed away in for-eign banks. These funds have been transparently deployed on infrastructural projects and used to directly empower the poorest in society. More is still to come from our international partners in France, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Yet the hundreds of billions sifted out of the country for the best part of this century promise more. “We have secured high profile convictions, but greater cases remain. Lawyers table endless objections to obstruct court proceedings, whilst their clients hope it lasts until a ‘friendly’ president is voted into office. We must continue to tighten the legal framework and ensure the authorities have the investigative powers at their disposal to secure sentences. Only then will we begin to neutralise the advantages the corrupt have. “More ghost workers must be removed from government payroll (almost $550 million has been saved from identifying phantom employees). More can be recovered through our whistle-blower policy ($370 million has been returned since its launch in 2016). More is still to come. But, together, we shall prevail over corruption. “Indeed, those who have criticised my administration’s anti-corruption drive are those who oppose its mission. And though their lawyers may craft expensive alibis, they cannot escape that which binds them together: a raft of documents and barely legal (some clearly illegal) mechanisms – whether that be the Panama Papers, US Congress reports, shell companies or offshore bank accounts,” Buhari said.