Sanwo-Olu Cares Medical Outreach, a free medical programme of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at the weekend, revealed that many Lagos residents do not have access to quality medical services.
The medical programme designed to reach out to the market women in all the 20 Local Government Areas of the state, is intended to fill the gaps in healthcare access and delivery in the state. The Outreach, which sees market as strategic in terms of locations and convergence point of people living in particular locations, reported an increase in the number of people with High Blood Pressure, cervical issues and breast ailments at the outreach. The Lagos wide outreach was jointly organised by Prime Group, BOS Eko Forum and LMC for BOS. The programme includes free medical consultations, free dental care, eye tests and free glasses, free cervical and breast cancer. According to the medical team leader, Dr. Ajayi, the medical outreach is also designed to reach those who barely have time to visit the hospital and also who cannot afford the cost of medical treatment.
The medical outreach team visited the 20 local governments in Lagos State. The team comprised of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, laboratory personnel and non-clinical health workers. In the meantime, Sanwo Eko Movement (SEM) in conjunction with Arewa community in Lagos held a rally to drum support for Sanwoolu and his deputy, Dr. Obáfémi Hamzat Kadir. The rally which held at the National Stadium was well attended as the Arewa Community Leaders from all over Lagos turned up to register their support and intent to vote Mr. Sanwoolu in the 2 March 2019 polls.
Speaking at the occasion, the National Coordinator of SEM, Engr. Funsho Elulade also enjoined all Lagosians to come out enmasse and vote for a greater and better Lagos. Furthermore, he said his group, Sanwo Eko Movement has been at the fore front of mobilizing grassroots support for the candidature of Mr. Sanwo-Olu from the inception of the campaign to occupy Alausa office come May 2019. Engr. Elulade also expressed his profound appreciation to all members of SEM who took their time to attend the rally. The endorsement was done with fanfare as thousands of the Arewa Support Group comprising of Arewa Council Chiefs, Arewa Community Leaders and Arewa Market Leaders and their followers came in their large numbers with buses into the National Stadium pitch on Wednesday. 