…as Aremu targets eight title  Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, currently in Niamey, the Niger capital for the ongoing U-20 Africa Cup of Nations, has said he was yet to take a decision on any player that might join the Super Eagles ahead of the AFCON qualifier against Seychelles and the international friendly game against Egypt next month. Rohr, who applauded the team for qualifying for the U-20 FIFA World Cup in Poland later in the year, said he would continue to monitor the team till the end of the competition. “They have scaled through to the World Cup, which I must salute them for that,” Rohr said. “They have done well to beat the hosts at their to progress to the next round of the competition. “The intensity of the game was high, the fans where behind the host team and Flying Eagles did well, but I am still watching the players for now, let’s see before the end of the tournament we will be able to pick one or two (for the Super Eagles vs Seychelles and Egypt). “I am still watching and observing for now, no decision on any players yet, let’s see how it goes in the semifinals and finals.” Meanwhile, Flying Eagles midfielder, Afeez Aremu, has said after securing the World Cup ticket, the target for the team would be winning on eight U-20 AFCON title. On Friday, the Nigeria U-20 edged past hosts Niger 1-0 to win Group A and qualify for the last-four alongside South Africa and also a place in the World Cup scheduled for Poland in May. IK Start of Norway midfielder Aremu said the team’s next target is to win an eighth AFCON. Aremu said: “We’ve got the qualification to play in the World Cup, which was our first priority of going into this tournament. Our next priority is to win the AFCON. “Our match against Niger was tension-soaked, it was difficult going up against the hosts with their fans behind them giving them full support. “But we kept to the game plan and we got the victory needed to scale through to the semifinal. “It was huge and something worth celebrating, we are so excited that we are going to the World Cup. “Now we can only better as we keep pushing forward.”  ...targets nine points in next three games   Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, is already weighing his options on the formation to adopt for the all-important match against Seychelles next week in continuation of the 2019 Africa Nations Cup qualifiers. Rohr started the 2018 World Cup with a four-man… In "Sports" Super Eagles technical adviser, Gernot Rohr, is banking on the abundant pool of talents as well as the youthfulness of his team to triumph over Libya when the two nations clash in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. The 65-year-old German gaffer categorically stated that he needs positive results in… In "Sports" Asssitant coach of the Super Eagles, Salisu Yusuf, will not be part of the coaching crew for the 2019 AFCON qualifier against Seychelles. This was disclosed by Nigeria’s manager Gernot Rohr during the announcement of the 24-man list for the match on September 7 in Victoria. “Salisu is under investigation… In "Sports"