A nationwide scarcity of cooking gas was averted penultimate week. Looking at the situation that led to this predicament, Adeola Yusuf reports that the major cause of the crisis is yet to be permanently resolved.  The surge in prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) also known as cooking gas loomed penultimate weekend, as the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), for eight days, detained the major vessel that supplies 1.5 million metric tons LPG through Apapa jetty to depots across the country. Though the vessel – Navigator Capricorn – on lease to Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) since last year was released one week after its arrest, it has been having a running battle with NIMASA over its operations in Nigeria being a foreign vessel.
After a meeting of NIMASA, NLNG and other major stakeholders, the vessel was released even though it was yet to meet the requirement for Cabotage law. The release – a temporary measure – has not guaranteed that a clog could not again be put in the wheel of the smooth supply of LNG from Bonny to Lagos.  The leftovers New Telegraph exclusively gathered that the seizure of Navigator Capricorn was swiftly greeted by price upward adjustment by some marketers who knew about the incident on time. President of the Nigeria Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association (NLPGA), Mr. Nuhu Yakubu, who confirmed the incident to this newspaper, declared that the seizure could have “slight effect on the supply,” but the good news is that it has been released. It was gathered that the detention of ‘MT Navigator Capricorn,’ the only vessel that supplies cooking gas to Nigeria’s domestic market, has created supply crisis, leading to a hike in the price of the product. The vessel, which brought 13,000 metric tonnes of LPG to Lagos from NLNG’s Bonny Island plant in Rivers State, was detained for about 10 days by NIMASA at the NOJ Jetty at Apapa after it had discharged its product.
NLNG brought in the new vessel to replace ‘MT Gas Providence,’ which used to supply LPG to the domestic market. The new vessel, which started operation in the country in 2018 brings in LPG every two weeks to Lagos for the licensed off takers appointed by the NLNG to distribute LPG to the domestic market. However, the refusal of the maritime regulator to allow the vessel to sail back to Bonny Island to continue its two-weekly voyage to Lagos, created supply crisis. The development, it was learnt, has already led to a hike in the cost of cooking gas in the country. For instance, a 20MT tanker of LPG, which cost N3.7 million before the crisis, was selling for N4.15 million penultimate weekend, while a 12.5kg LPG cylinder, which cost N3, 200 traded at N3, 800 in some places in Lagos. Still cause for concern The NIMASA was unequivocal when addressing the issue. The maritime regulator declared it had commenced clampdown on vessels that do not comply with the provisions of the Cabotage Compliance Strategy introduced last year, to ease the implementation of the Cabotage Act of 2003.  A source at NIMASA took this statement a step further when he said that the NLNG vessel was released based on temporary resolution of the case. “Navigator Capricorn will have to adhere strictly to the Nigerian law and that is what NIMASA was established to enforce. The vessel was released based on assurances from stakeholders that the law will be enforced. “Under the Nigerian law all foreign vessels operating charter services in Nigeria waters are supposed to have a certain number of Nigerians on board as part of its personnel. However, in the case of the detained vessel, it was not having Nigerians on board, which runs contrary to our laws,” he added. The stakeholders, this newspaper gathered, had scheduled a meeting for this week, where solutions would be found to the effects of the detainment. The meeting will also find permanent solution to the running battle between NIMASA and the vessel owner and concessionaires.  The chatterer of the vessel –NNLG, sources informed this newspaper was aware of the anomalies and had reasoned Nigerians were not on board because of the high safety standard set by the owners of the vessel, which obviously did not go on well with NIMASA.
For upward of about two years, the new vessel is on charter by the NLNG in replacement of Gas Providence – another vessel that has been in use to supply domestic LPG to depots in Nigeria.  The incidence The vessel after series of negotiation between the company, NIMASA and key stakeholders had to first be moved to safe anchorage to allow other operators access to this very strategic berthing space at the Apapa jetty. It was later on Saturday morning released to sail back to Bonny.
“The NOJ is very key to LPG supply in Nigeria, as it is the only jetty available for now for LPG receipt in Apapa axis where over 80 per cent of the entire LPG supply can be delivered to depots,” a manager at one of the depots in Apapa told this newspaper after his anonymity was guaranteed. “The vessel, which sails out @ 16.42hrs on Thursday to a safe anchorage pending the resolution of the issue, implies that the expected Return Of the vessel to Apapa after loading at Bonny might not be actualized as envisaged with the likelihood of a major hitch in supply and price hike of the product in the market,” he added. The immediate fallout, according to him, is the galloping price of the product especially at the retail level as well as some wholesalers. “The supply situation might even be worsened by the fact that NOJ is about the only reception point for LPG as government had reserved the other points – BOP and PWA for PMS to ensure that there is enough petrol especially with the elections very near.
“In the same vein, the detained vessel is the one dedicated to supply LPG to the domestic market across the country and carries over 13,000MT,” he said. The issue is been given utmost attention due it’s likely grave impact on log supply across the country as the vessel is the only one supplying to all depots in Nigeria from. NLNG, he added.  NIMASA’s clampdown on vessels Though it confirmed the temporary release of Motor Tanker, MT NAVIGATOR CAPRICORN vessel, NIMASA stated last weekend that it had commenced clampdown on vessels that do not comply with the provisions of the Cabotage Compliance Strategy introduced last year, to ease the implementation of the Cabotage Act of 2003 in Nigeria.  In a statement last weekend, the Director-General of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, said the agency would no longer encourage the application of any form of waivers under the Cabotage Act, particularly from the oil firms operations as such do not help the growth of the Nigerian maritime sector and economy at large. He said: “Our laws forbid foreign vessels operating in our territorial waters save for compliance with the Cabotage Act. There shall be no sacred cow when we commence clampdown on erring vessels.
“We want to increase the number of Nigerians who participate in the marine aspect of your business and we are working closely with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to have a joint categorisation of vessels operating under the Cabotage Act in order to ensure the full implementation of the Act.” Already, he said a detention order for a Motor Tanker, MT NAVIGATOR CAPRICORN, which is a LPG carrier, has been approved for contravening sections of the Cabotage Act. The vessel, he stated, was first boarded in October 2018 and all infractions of Cabotage non-compliance were noted and communicated accordingly to the charterer/Owners representatives with a 90 days’ grace period to comply.
“The 90 days expired on January 31, 2019. It is noteworthy that the owners made undertaking to remedy the notable infractions when the vessel was issued a detention warning in October 2018,” he stated. “While NIMASA is currently engaging the owners and charterers of the vessel on the need to comply with the laws of the land, MT NAVIGATOR CAPRICORN has been moved to Lagos Anchorage to allow space for other LPG vessels to discharge at the NOJ Jetty.”
Peterside had recently led the agency officials to meet with the Oil Producers Trade Sector (OPTS) in Lagos where he urged industry players to draw up a five-year strategic plan for the cessation of application for Cabotage waiver and also pursue the utilisation of Nigerian-owned vessels for marine contracts. In August 2018, NIMASA had introduced a new Compliance Strategy for Cabotage Implementation in Nigeria to ensure full implementation of the Cabotage Act, 2003 to secure jobs for qualified Nigerians in the maritime sector.
The agency via a Marine Notice suspended considerations for applications for waiver on manning for prescribed categories of officers in vessels engaged in Cabotage trade.  Effects of scarcity
There has been frantic effort by the federal government of Nigeria to promote the consumption of LPG in past years, but the looming crises seem to be a major setback. The inability of the country to fully maximise its 187 trillion cubic feet of gas deposit remains a major concern, as Nigeria ranks lowest compared to other sub Saharan countries such as Ghana, Morocco and South Africa in the use of cooking gas.
As cooking gas scarcity looms, many citizens may eventually resort to using kerosene, which is not only expensive, but also pose health risks to the users as opposed to joining long queues at filling stations. A 12.5kg cylinder sold at N2800 to N3500 will likely rise to N4000- N5000. The kerosene to gas vision of Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, seems to be threatened by the current refusal of the highest body of the LPG investors and Nigeria Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association (NLPGA) to submit their price template. Artificial scarcity of kerosene has gripped the Nigerian economy in past years and the looming gas scarcity would affect supply across the country. Recently, Nigeria’s oil revenue crashed 67 per cent to $3.42 billion and subsequent cases of fuel scarcity will in turn affect the economy. The resultant effect of cooking gas scarcity will be an increase in kerosene prices, subsequent hoarding and endless queues at filling stations and major depots.  Last line
The owners of foreign vessels must ensure compliance to the relevant laws in the land while government agencies must also consider resultant effects of their law enforcement. In all, a permanent solution must be found to the crisis between NIMASA and NLNG – MT NAVIGATOR CAPRICORN to nip a major gas scarcity in the bud.