A cross section of Nigerians speak with Temitope Ogunbanke on former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s incessant criticism of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration   Obasanjo has a democratic right to express his views – Obioha Chief Ralph Obioha, a Second Republic member of the House of Representatives, is a chieftain of National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) Whether Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is a former president or not, he enjoys freedom of expression and nobody can deny him that. It may not be too curious that he is doing that. I think he has a right and I don’t think he should be gagged in any way, form or manner. So, considering Obasanjo’s public letters to the President and his comments over certain issues as regards this present administration, I still maintain that he has a democratic right to express his views. I don’t see anything wrong with that. But, going by the view of some people that Obasanjo should communicate privately to the President rather than writing public letters or embarking on open criticisms, there is nothing wrong in that. They are right; that is a statesman option and I believe he should try to adopt that option as a way of trying to criticize. That is a statesman option; I also share that view. But on the basic principle of his freedom to speak, nobody can deny him that. Looking at some of the issues being raised by former President Obasanjo, they issues that are debatable, whether what he is saying are based on personal or national interest. What is personal about him, for example saying that the President should be sensitive to security issues that bother on people being killed, which has actually been one of the negatives of Buhari’s presidency? And also, when he criticizes about lopsidedness of appointments to only one section of the country, you must also look at it as a good contribution. So, as much as we want to recommend that he should be speaking through privately, there are so many glaring things in this administration that requires the voice of an elder statesman. I have sighted two and nobody can deny that there is no too much lopsidedness in the appointments in a federation call Nigeria. Obasanjo’s fears are genuine – Achi-Okpagha Uche Achi-Okpagha is the National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Every indication testifies to former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s vindication. As president, Obasanjo appointed a south easterner as chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Goodluck Jonathan appointed a northerner, but apparently, owing to his ulterior motives seemingly playing out now, Buhari appointed a northerner. The bleeding issues are the latest appointment of Amina Zakari, who has been an age-long close confidant of Buhari and the callous and blatant move to remove the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN). The majority fear and alarming opinion are to the fact that the presidency wants to remove the CJN and plant a northerner, as usual, who would play to the political gallery and instruct appointed judges to make electoral decisions favourable to the APC. I sincerely identify with Obasanjo in his fears and posit that a four-yearold government should be able to tell Nigerians that ‘l did this and that’ not that ‘l will do this and that. Nigeria not getting the best from Obasanjo as a statesman – Sani Anthony Sani is an elder statesman and the Secretary General of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). My take on former President Olusegun Obasanjo to always want to write public letters to criticise sitting President is borne out of ego. This is because he has come to believe he is the conscience of the nation and the kingmaker of the Nigerian politics. He believes his impulses are inspired by God, which makes him not to feel bound by common decency and decorum expected from a statesman. Hence his public letters about President Muhammadu Buhari, which he had believed, would yield the desired results. When his first letter did not compel President Buhari to let go the aspiration to bid for second term, the former president feels he was being demystified because the myth is being threatened, hence his decision to reverse himself from statesman to become partisan in order to provide the leadership for the campaigns to unseat the president. As I have just mentioned, like joke, like play, the former president is seeing the possibility of President Buhari becoming his Achilles heel, so far as his ego trip of being the doyen of Nigeria politics is concerned. With the foregoing, it would be difficult for the former president to play his status as a statesman that cannot go with partisan disposition. His ego that he is the conscience of the nation would not allow him to play the roles of a statesman, which should prevent him from actions that can ridicule and inspire public loss of faith and confidence in the nation’s democratic institutions. I wouldn’t know Obasanjo’s motivation. But the issues raised seem to be phatic in order to appeal to base sentiments rather than provide information or enlightenment needed for informed decisions during elections, especially when regard is paid to the fact that the records of performances are there for the voters to use and inform their decisions in the elections. Former presidents in other countries usually play statesmanship de-void of any undue partisan disposition. As a result, they are at liberty to consult and advise sitting presidents privately for corrective purposes. But because the former President Obasanjo believes he has special grace from God to represent majority of Nigerians, he has joined the fray of partisan politics, which have put some form of crimp between him and the sitting presidents. As a result, Nigeria is not getting the best from him as a statesman. Obasanjo contributed to the mess we are in – Banjo Lanre Banjo is a former governorship candidate of National Conscience Party (NCP) There is absolutely nothing wrong with former President Obasanjo writing public letters to express his view on national. This is our nation, Nigerians need to know that we still have elders who are speaking truth to power privately and when they don’t listen, they make it public. That way those coming behind us would not pose the questions, what did people like Obasanjo say when the country is sliding, even though it is on record that he caused all these problems for the nation with his selfishness. If Obasanjo wrote privately to President Buhari and he did not listen, he has every right and duty to let the public know his position. Nigerians are noting those who are accomplice with their destruction and this is dwarfing their status. Because of hunger, Nigerians may pretend and publicly shower encomium on them, but they wonder in private, why are our leaders leading them into the river. But, Obasanjo contributed to this mess we are in by thwarting the established rules and by arrogating the power to appoint who rules Nigeria to himself. The predominant problem of Obasanjo is zoning. I have discussed this with him privately and to copy him, I am making this public. When he rigged the victory of former President Shehu Shagari, he did it based on zoning. How could anyone opine that the best would not be in charge of our affair and then illegally enforce it? He finally condemned Shagari and they overthrew him. He illegally enforced the ruling of President Umar Yar’Adua who was the best Nigeria ever had, but when Yar’Ardua started to secretly fight corruption without unnecessary noise, they hid under his sickness to get rid of him. Obasanjo now felt the minority has never ruled before, he performed his magic and helped Jonathan. He finally chased him out of power with goodluck Jonathan rightly or wrongly calling him “agbero”. When the cabal decided to get rid of MKO Abiola and installed him, Ibrahim Babaginda was in Abeokuta to plan with him. He didn’t tell Babangida that I love Yewa people, let me look for Yewa so we can zone it there. He didn’t tell Babangida, I am not the only Yoruba, let’s zone it to another part of the Yoruba. All of them talking about zoning today including governors, when they are interested, they zone it to themselves. After they have amassed wealth, then they remember that an ethnic somewhere needs to rule. This hypocrisy is murdering Nigeria. As far as I am concerned, all of them including Buhari are selfish. Why would Buhari agree to signing the senseless “Not too young to rule” law only if it starts after his second term expires. Why would he insist that the presidential elections must come first? Why would he refuse to sign electoral laws that would curb rigging and he thought would curtail his electoral victory? They are not learning from Obasanjo himself. If this is a serious society, Obasanjo with his age and with conscience would have known that he lacks morality to condemn Buhari on issues he performed worse. This is Nigeria. Nigeria is unique. If anyone behaves the way our leaders behave anywhere in the world, the leaders before him, who don’t want their children to suffer would cry out loud. Please let Obasanjo be Obasanjo. Hopefully one day, they would leak their secrets out. His criticisms should be allowed to disturb unity of ruling class – Aborisade Comrade Femi Aborishade is a lawyer and human rights activist From the standpoint of balance of forces between the masses of our people and the ruling class, I welcome the scathing criticisms of former President Olusegun Obasanjo of all rulers of Nigeria at critical times. This is because the struggles of the masses for one demand or the other cannot be victorious when the ruling class is united without deep divisions. What we need to say to the masses is that Obasanjo (and/or the faction of the ruling forces he represents) cries/cry out, not with a view to actualising the systemic changes required for the welfare interest of the masses but to actualise a mere regime change so that his own faction of the ruling class may displace the incumbent forces but on the same ruinous neo liberal policies that have impoverished the masses and thrown the country into an unprecedented state of insecurity being currently experienced. Moreover, still from the point of view of balance of forces, I wish to recall the anti-military dictatorship era. In the struggles of our people against military junta of Ibrahim Babangida and Sani Abacha junta in particular, we welcomed the criticisms of Obasanjo, without recalling his past undemocratic roles, not because Obasanjo represented anything progressive but because such divisions had salutary effects on the strength of the anti-military dictatorship struggles and weakened the military wing holding the reins of power. Only the incumbent ruling class stands to benefit if personalities like Obasanjo (and the forces he represents) desist from open criticisms of incumbent governments. Such a climate of “esprit de corp” would strengthen incumbent governments to be more repressive and insensitive to the yearnings of ordinary people. It is only politically naive people outside the ruling class, who would seek to silence the phenomenon of Obasanjo, who suffers no moral restraint criticising the shortcomings of sitting governments even though he knows that he himself represents the dark era in the history of Nigeria as far as the undemocratic phase of Nigeria is concerned. Lastly, there should be an irreducible minimum beyond which a society should not be allowed to degenerate. Where the political and economic cabals are campaigning for a candidate who appears to be unaware that he is the presidential candidate of his party and who pathetically demonstrates that he lacks capacity to understand what children in kindergarten schools are capable of understanding, Nigeria would have been doomed and condemned to the dustbin of history if opposition voices are not raised to say, “No!”. It is not all the rantings of a demented soul that should be ignored. In the midst of the rantings of the insane, a good listener may hold some worthwhile message. To this extent only, at times, the message should be separated from the mesenger. Therefore, whilst the former President may not represent the moral or political compass to direct Nigeria, his criticisms should be allowed to disturb the unity of the ruling class. Such a divisive state within the ruling class is one of the pre-conditions for the ultimate successful victory of the oppressed over their oppressors. Ex-president always playing to the gallery – Erubami Comrade Mashood Erubami is the President, Nigeria Voters Assembly There is nothing untoward if such letters are meant to call attention to missing points in governance but it becomes uncharitable when the letters come from a character less privileged to write such letters, especially when the contents of the letter is targeted at seeking pound of flesh for denial of selfish propositions and self centered solicitation from the person to which such letters are directed. In the case of former President Obasanjo’s letters, it is not only vindictive, self centred and malicious; it is anarchical and undisguised partisan. To me, the letters are not induced by good faith, I see it as a means of compensating the Buhari administration in its own coins of not appreciating enough, the contributions he thought he made in supporting the government to win election in 2015 and the semblance of acceptable representation he represent in the eyes of Nigeria’s foreign friends, especially given his positions in the Commonwealth and the world at large. Obasanjo’s usual headache is that he hates to hear or see that today is better than yesterday. He does not feel at ease that somebody performs better than him hence he watches and take all actions that will berate his predecessors or successors in government as not too good, elevating himself as the best. So, the letter is not only insultive to the collective intelligence of Nigerians but inconsequential in context and content. He was a military head of state in Nigeria not only as a failure, but handed over in controversial circumstance giving the impression that he will rig election for his preferred candidate having from the start, chosen his own acclaimed messiah and condemning the other as not being the needed leader. Obasanjo is well position to use his closeness to offer advises that can lift the country to a good height given the human and material resources the country is endowed with. It would have been recently appropriate for him to give good advice in camera, but because he would always want to play to the gallery, he has always preferred the circulation of his “bile in the dish” letters in the public space pretending to be seeking for better Nigeria, when indeed he laid the foundation of unwholesome governance in Nigeria through the undermining of other leaders. For me, the latest messages from Obasanjo’s will mark the end of his arrogance that if he does not support any government, it can never succeed. The letters against Buhari’s this time, will make Obasanjo’s projections for his foreign friends and the mobilised, disenchanted, retired over pampered Generals fall down in thoughts and actions like pack of cards. Like I said earlier, the contents of his letter, if to a very bad government will not be wrong, except where it is underlined with vicious lies, hatred and untruths. In Obasanjo’s case, both the messenger cannot be wholesomely separated from his messages because they are intertwined and are not well intentioned but only out to pull down the successful efforts of the present government to lift Nigeria to its desired democratic tower, which no doubt will be visible to the dumb and felt by the blind at the end of the day. The issues raised cannot in anyway be in the interest of the nation, if anything it is self serving and meant to submerge the nation in the ocean of chaos and tyranny. Without any doubt, no nation in the world will succeed in anything if it habours characters that do not see anything good in others. I have not seen, experienced or heard about former presidents coming out to criticise their successors and public office holders the way Obasanjo’s is doing gleefully in most unacceptably hatch tones. Both within the country and outside it, former Presidents that I know have remain consistently disciplined, reliable, remorseful and humble in their internal and external relations, they have not been heard hatefully criticising others to gain political stature, they have always given their advice where necessary in camera, joining hands in the tasks of making their countries one and great. Obasanjo is not the only former president – Umohinyang Emmanuel Umohinyang is the Convener, Re-elect Buhari Movement (RBM). When it comes to the issue of credible election, Obasanjo does not have a say. He does not have the morality to talk about credible election in Nigeria because he is the grandmaster of election rigging. Under his watch, we had the Maurice Iwu of this world. During his time, election was not won at the ballot, results were written from the comfort of people’s homes. It was during his era that we had the famous “Mr. fix it.” Election was fixed. It is only an exhibition of fear, thinking that we are back to the era we are coming from. I want to assure our former President that the new Sheriff in town is different from what we had during his era. Under President Muhammadu Buhari, elections will not only be free and credible, it will be seen by even the worst critics of his administration. Let us not becloud ourselves with the issue, coming from Otta, asserting that this administration is being run like the Abacha era. I think it is the most unfortunate statement I have had from a former President. By the way, Obasanjo is not the only former President we have had in this country and one expects that as an elder statesman, if he sees anything that the administration has done that he feel strongly about, he could approach the President and share his views. The late former President Shehu Shagari, and General Yakubu Gowon are examples. We have the Council of State of which he is a member, so trying to portray himself as saint when we have his records is like a slap on our face. It’s quite unfortunate. I think we should give it to this administration that it has saved us the pain and agony of the past, talking about the Obasanjo/Atiku era, when political detainees was the order of the day, politically motivated assassination was the order of the day. I think ex-President Obasanjo may have run out of ideas and is just trying to seek attention from Nigerians. Unfortunately, he cannot get it. President Buhari is a General of the people’s army. Nigerians love him and appreciate what he is doing. That is basically the reason we are pushing his re-election come February 16.