A husband and wife, who are yet to get over the shock and alleged murder of their daughter, have urged the Abia State Police Command to immediately charge the matter to court.
This demand came a month after their daughter, Rose Otenkwa (24), a student nurse, allegedly died in the hands of her live-in lover. The incident occurred in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State.
Rose was allegedly killed by her boyfriend, Agwu Ukoha Nwojo. According to reports, Nwojo beat Rose to death on January 12, 2019 after impregnating her.
Rose’s grieving elder brother, Mr. Iche Otenkwa, said: “The sudden death of my sister came as a shock to every one of us in the family. Rose was registered as a student nurse in one of the popular private hospitals on Asaga Road, Ebem Ohafia, a few months ago. She, however, left the accommodation rented for her and moved in with Agwu. This was after the hospital expelled her for being pregnant. It was found out that her boyfriend got her pregnant.
“From investigations carried out by the family, it was discovered that Rose died from injuries sustained after a series of beatings before being taken to an unknown hospital in the area. The boyfriend and a nurse on duty were responsible for my sister’s death. The boyfriend and nurse have been arrested by the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigations Department (SCIID), Area Command, Umuahia.”
Rose’s broken hearted father, a farmer, Mr. Otenkwa Uduma Agwu, urged the police not to deny them access to justice.
He alleged: “The boyfriend, after putting our daughter in the family way, went ahead and conspired with a nurse to kill her. Police should allow the case to be handled by the court to allow justice to take its course. Justice delayed is justice denied.”
The Coordinator, Legal Aid Council, Abia State, Mrs. Martha Egwu Igu, who is presently handling the case in conjunction with the SCIID, said: “The Council will not give up until justice takes it course.”
According to her, the Council, which gives voice to the voiceless, was set up by government to represent people who cannot afford the services of private legal practitioners, render access to justice and assist indigent/poor citizens of Nigeria, particularly in Abia State.
Igu urged the police to expedite action and charge the case to court in order to allow justice to take its course.
At the time of filing the report, body of Rose has been deposited at a hospital morgue in Ohafia.