The order by the Acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, for the decentralisation of operations of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) unit hardly came to many Nigerians as surprise. The notoriety of men of the squad in the areas of unprofessional conduct and glaring disregard for rule of law in the discharge of their constitutional duties has brought national shame.  By this order, SARS operations hitherto at the Force Headquarters has been decentralised as respective Commissioners of Police in various states now have administrative and operational controls over officers and men of the anti-robbery squad.  With the commissioners having “full command and control” over activities of SARS in their respective states and being liable for any professional misconduct of their operatives in their commands, and the SARS unit in the Force Headquarters supervised by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police in charge of Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), sanity seems underway for the quintessential squad.  Instructively, the Special Investigation Panel (SIP) has been disbanded while a comprehensive reorganisation of the Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counterterrorism Unit and Special Protection Unit (SPU) are being undertaken. The proliferation of various police units answerable to the past IGPs was duplicitous and a usurpation of duties of various commands nationwide.  We commend these noble efforts because the units are central to crowd control, riot prevention and mitigation especially as the elections are closed by, and more importantly, re-positioning process which is expected to eventually cascade down to the zonal and state command levels are vital at this moment. Unprofessional activities of the FSARS and some of these units have come under severe scrutiny in recent times. Reports abound of unlawful arrest of Nigerians and foreign nationals by FSARS officials who paid huge sums for their freedom. In some cases, these gun-wielding operatives, often dressed in mufti bare-facedly intimidate people in commando style and force suspects to ATM to make heavy withdrawals for them. Sadly in some cases, many operatives and officers of SARS have become puns in the hands of belligerent politicians in their desperation for power as was manifest in Rivers State early last year. Last year, the nation practically rose against FSARS with the campaign #EndSARS; #EndSARSBrutality, #EndbadSARS and #ReformSARS, which trended on twitter and other social media platforms. It chronicled unrivalled human rights abuses like labelling and arrest of members of the public by SARS personnel for such ridiculous and innocuous acts as wearing expensive wristwatch and carrying a back bag! The campaign gained a huge followership as it afforded thousands of people, prominent Nigerians inclusive, to narrate their bitter and horrific experiences in the hands of SARS operatives in all parts of the country. Little wonder that early in November 2017, the Security and Police Index International rated the Nigeria Police Force as one of the worst police organisations globally. The report which was released by the International Police Science Association and the Institute for Economics and Peace was based on the assessment of 127 countries. However, we make bold to state that this is the first time the FSARS operations were reorganised, because the immediate past IGP, Ibrahim Idris, following alleged unethical conduct by personnel of the units, reorganised the same squad last year, but it failed woefully to produce the much desired efficiency and resourcefulness. Hence, we call for a holistic and result-oriented approach to the re-organisation across the board to stem gradual balkanisation of police duties throughout the various commands and divisions in the country. Just as the FCIID handles or co-ordinates intelligence and investigative activities at the centre, a reversal to time-tested practice where SARS at various commands work as a unit at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), headed by a Deputy Commissioner of Police, who in turn reports to the CP is very key for the desired command and control. We acknowledge that the Nigeria Police Force parades scores of highly professional, urbane and well-educated officials, but we found it in inexplicable that this, in addition to regular salary increase, pensions and reforms panels have failed to produce remarkable improvement in their operational and investigative capacities and capabilities. While we believe the endemic problem is not spiritual but institutional, we call on the IGP to match his words with actions, especially now when the issue of paucity of funds and crime control technology are being addressed in the force. The acting IGP must also be ready to evoke the principle of vicarious liability not only on erring SARS operatives and officers, but also on the supervisory Commissioner of Police to send a strong signal of seriousness. Nigerians need more than initial jingoistic and spasmodic pronouncements which have formed the regular refrain of successive IGPs, but are now desirous of a consistently reinvigorated Police Force and its various departments in order to fully restore order in the force and stop the current ebbing policing standards.