The stakes are high in today’s presidential election as President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar are locked in a neck-and-neck, FELIX NWANERI reports   About 84 million Nigerians go to the polls today to elect a new president alongside 469 members of the National Assembly. Voting will take place in the 119,973 polling units across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). An unprecedented 73 candidates are contesting the presidential election. According to a list published by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). However, one the candidates, Oby Ezekwesili of the ACPN has withdrawn from the race although INEC said it was too late to do so. Despite the huge number of candidates, bookmakers say it is a two-horse race between the candidates of the ruling APC and main opposition PDP. The build-up to the election had not been a tea party. The campaigns were tensed, with the various parties and their candidates exchanging all man ner of brickbats as they inundate the people with their respective programmes. 76-year-old Buhari, who is seeking a second term, served as Nigeria’s Head of State between 1983 and 1985. He made history with his defeat of an incumbent president for the first time in Nigeria’s political history, and became Nigeria’s second former military ruler after Chief Olusegun Obasanjo to return to the presidency through the ballot. Atiku, a 72-year-old retired Customs officer, was Nigeria’s vice president between 1999 and 2003. He is running for the office of president for the fifth time. Head-to-head, the two parties and their candidates have what it takes to carry the day. Both parties have held sway since Nigeria returned to democratic rule in 1999. Of the five general elections the nation had conducted since then, PDP won four (1999, 2003, 2007 and 2011), while APC won one (2015). Buhari polled a total of 14.8 million during APC’s direct presidential primary held across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to emerge as candidate. There was no one to contest the APC ticket with him, so the ruling party’s convention was merely to coronate him as presidential candidate. Atiku, on the other hand, defeated 11 other aspirants at the PDP’s national convention held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He polled 1,532 votes to beat his closest rival, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, who scored 693 votes while Senate President Bukola Saraki came third with 317 votes. The incumbent is banking the achievements of his administration to win the election. Buhari said APC is proud of its records from 2015 to date, adding that it had arrested and checked the slide to anarchy on the security and economic fronts. He added that Boko Haram under his government had been decapitated as normalcy had returned to much of North-East and neighbouring North-West states. Atiku, on his part, has promised to work towards addressing the numerous challenges facing the country. “We have enumerated a number of challenges facing this country. What we should now do in the next phase of our electioneering is to proffer solutions to these challenges we have identified conflicting our country and its people,” he said. The former vice president further noted that Nigerians are yearning for a change of leadership as they are not happy with the current administration. He promised that his leadership would not fail the citizens, who according to him, “had years of prosperity of unity, of security and of development when the PDP was at the helm of affairs at the federal level.” Today’s election is not the first time both men would square up against each other. They met in the 2014 presidential primary of the APC. Buhari polled 4,430 votes at the party’s convention held in Lagos to beat Atiku; then Kano State governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso; Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha and the publisher of Leadership Newspapers, Sam Nda-Isaiah, to clinch the presidential ticket for the 2015 elections. Interestingly, Kwankwaso polled 974 votes to place second, while Atiku, who many had thought would give Buhari a good run, came third with 954 votes. Okorocha came fourth with 624 votes, while Nda-Isaiah had 10 votes. Buhari went ahead to defeat an incumbent president (Goodluck Jonathan) by 15.4 million to 12.8 million votes. Buhari is not new to the presidential race. It is the fifth time he will be contesting the presidential election. His first attempt was in 2003 on the platform of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), but was defeated by then President Olusegun Obasanjo of the PDP. He was back in 2007, also on the platform of the ANPP, but was defeated by late Umar Yar’Adua, who hailed from Katsina State with him. In March 2010, he left the ANPP to form the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC). It was on this platform that he contested the 2011 presidential election, scoring 12.2 million votes against then President Jonathan’s 22.4 million votes. The intrigues and power play that characterised the election, especially the collapse of an alliance between the CPC and Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), forced Buhari to declare at the eve of the presidential poll that he would not seek any elective office again. “This campaign is the third and last one for me since after it I will not present myself again for election into the office of the president,” he said. He however made a detour in 2013, when he said: “I am still in active politics until the polity is sanitised and people enjoy the fruits of democracy at all levels of government.” He hinged his resolution on two compelling objectives – need to sanitise the polity, and to ensure that Nigerians enjoy the dividends of democracy at all levels of government. The volte-face unsettled many Northern political elements, who had been on the standby to step into his shoes,but the stern Buhari, like the soldier that he is, stuck to his gun and resolved not to quit politics, even when some of his contemporaries have taken the back stage. Despite the discontent, his 2015 bid gained momentum shortly after the formalisation of the merger of leading opposition parties –ACN, CPC, ANPP and a faction of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), which led to the formation and registration of APC on July 31, 2013. There is no doubt that the APC national leadership was able to build formidable structures across the country between 2013 the party was registered and the 2015 elections, but it is incontrovertible that Buhari rode on his popularity, particularly in the North, where he enjoys a kind of cult-like followership, to power. His popularity, perhaps, explained the support his ambition got from then APC governors even when two of them – Kwankwaso and Okorocha – contested the party’s presidential primary. His electoral strength as demonstrated in previous elections, especially in 2011, when he garnered about 12 million votes, convinced the governors of his ability to defeat Jonathan in the 2015 poll. The CPC platform, on which he contested the 2011 presidential election, it would be recalled, was formed less than six months to the election and his campaign never extended beyond the North. He also lacked the financial strength, which plays a great role in determining electoral victories in the country. Despite these limitations, he was able to win 12 out of the 19 Northern states of Bauchi, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Niger, Borno, Sokoto, Yobe and Zamfara, while Jonathan’s PDP won in the rest seven states of Kwara, Kogi, Plateau, Benue, Nasarawa, Taraba and Adamawa. It was therefore understandable when APC chieftains, including those who lost out in the presidential primaries threw all they had in support of the Buhari candidature in the last elections. The backing was informed by the belief that Buhari will guarantee substantial votes for the party in the North-West and North-East zones as well as the South-West, where the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, holds sway, politically. The calculation paid off with the party’s victory in the presidential poll and 21 out of the country’s 36 states. The states were Ogun, Kogi, Osun, Ondo, Oyo, Kano, Jigawa, Niger, Bauchi, Sokoto, Adamawa, Katsina, Kwara, Kaduna, Benue, Borno, Kebbi, Lagos, Yobe, Gombe and Zamfara. It is also the fifth time Atiku would be making attempt for the presidency. He first took a shot at the plum job in 1993 and placed third after Chief Moshood Abiola and Babagana Kingibe in the Social Democratic Party (SDP) primaries. He was however elected governor of Adamawa State in 1998. While still governorelect, he was selected by the PDP presidential candidate, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, as his running mate and they went on to win the election in February 1999. After his first term as vice president, some governors elected on the platform of the then ruling party plotted to deny Obasanjo a second term. The plan was to hand Atiku the party’s presidential ticket in that year’s general elections, but he opted for a joint ticket with his principal and both won the election. However, the botched plot pitched him against Obasanjo and the cold war that ensued after their inauguration, degenerated to a bitter political battle by 2006, when Atiku declared his ambition to succeed Obasanjo.º Obasanjo’s insistence that Atiku would not succeed him forced the then vice president to leave the PDP for the defunct Action Congress (AC), which handed him its presidential ticket. The election was won by Yar’Adua (PDP). Atiku rejected the result and called for its cancellation, describing it as Nigeria’s worst election. He, however, returned to the PDP in 2009. While his return was initially resisted by his state chapter of the PDP, he was granted a waiver by the party’s national leadership. That paved the way for him to contest the 2011 PDP presidential primaries. Atiku was selected by the Northern Elders Political Leaders Forum (NPEF) led by former Minister of Finance, Mallam Adamu Ciroma, as the region’s consensus candidate, but was floored at PDP’s presidential primaries by then Acting President Jonathan, who went ahead to win the election. The 2011 defeat did not deter Atiku as he surfaced again in 2014 for the 2015 presidency. He had before then made good his threat of dumping the PDP should the party’s leadership fail to return it to the vision of its founding fathers with his defection to the then opposition APC. Many had believed that he would be the candidate to beat in the APC presidential primaries given his financial strength and political structure, but he lost the ticket to Buhari. With the 2015 presidential election won and lost, the former vice president returned to his chain of businesses, but a rumoured 2019 ambition emanated late 2015. It was alleged then that Atiku hosted political meetings in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, apparently to revive his political machinery ahead of the 2019 presidential election, but the former vice president described the rumour as the handiwork of political mischief makers, who want to draw a wedge between him and President Buhari. Besides denying the 2019 presidential bid, Atiku added that the success of the Buhari administration had been his preoccupation, and that any true APC member should have the same zeal. But, denial being another name for politics, it was not long before the picture became clear that the former vice president will take another shot at the presidency. However, there was a roadblock to this quest – Buhari’s second term bid. This seeming barrier apparently forced Atiku to resign from the APC on November 24, 2017. He hinged his decision on the party’s failure to deliver on its promises to Nigerians, who, according to him, have long been desperate for improved economic interventions. While the former vice president promised then to take time to ponder about his next political move, it was obvious that he would be returning to his former party. This belief manifested, when he formally returned to the PDP and it did not take long before he declared his presidential ambition. As the most populous nation in Africa, Nigeria, elects a president this weekend, it is not only choosing a head of state, but a head of government and a commander-in-chief of the largest democracy in the continent, FELIX NWANERI reports     It is expected to be a nail-biting finish… In "Politics" The North-West and South-West geopolitical zones have turned to battlegrounds for President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of this weekend’s presidential election. The belief is that whoever among the 73 candidates contesting the election that garners… In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) may disqualify 43 candidates for failing to meet the minimum age requirements specified in the 1999 Constitution (as amended) for candidates seeking elective offices.   The breakdown of the figure includes one presidential and three vice presidential candidates, as well as 14 senatorial and… In "News"