 Burial of Olabisi Silva, simply known as Bisi Silva, will hold tomorrow in Lagos.
The death of Silva on Tuesday 12 February 2019, threw the arts community and indeed the nation, into palpable grief. Silva was an independent curator and founder/director of Centre for Contemporary Art (CCA), Lagos. She was Artistic Director of the 10th Bamako Encounters, African Biennial of Photography (2015) in Mali, Co-Curator of the 2nd Thessaloniki Biennale of Contemporary Art in Greece (2009), and Co-Curator of the 7th Dak’Art: African Contemporary Art Biennial (2006). She was the curator of the pan-African roaming alternative art school, Asiko (2010- until her death). Also, she co-curated The Progress of Love, a transcontinental collaboration between the Menil Collection (Houston, USA) Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts (Missouri, USA) and CCA Lagos (2012–13) and J.D. ‘Okhai Ojeikere: Moments of Beauty at the Kiasma Museum of Contemporary Art, Helsinki (2011). Series of events have been put together to celebrate her, beginning today with ‘In Conversation: Prof. Henry Drewal (Prof. of Art History and Afro-American Studies at the University of Wiscosin, Madison, USA) with Fernanda Villaroel, at Centre for Contemporary Art, Lagos, 9, McEwen Street, Off Herbert Macaulay Way, Lagos. Funeral service will hold tomorrow at Trinity House, Water Corporation Drive, Oniru, Lagos, at 10 am, while Internment follows at Ikoyi Cemetery at 1pm with close family and friends.
Also, an exhibition in her honour, holds at Freedom Park, Lagos, at 2pm. Meanwhile, CORA/Arterial Nigeria, Arterial Network, a Pan-African network of artists, arts organisations, creative enterprises and activists, has expressed a deep sense of loss at the demise of Silva. In a statement, CORA/Arterial Nigeria, while commiserating with the family of the late Silva, the Nigerian, African and international visual arts community, for this painful loss, noted that Silva contributed to the implementation of Arterial Network Cultural Management Programme as one of the key resource persons and mentors.
The statements reads: “It is with a deep sense of loss that CORA/Arterial Network Nigeria formally notifies its members of the sudden passing of Olabisi Silva, one of our honorary members. She contributed to the implementation of Arterial Network Cultural Management Programme as one of the key resource persons and mentors. “A frequent participant in international conferences and symposia, Bisi had published in journals and art magazines including Artforum, Third Text, The Exhibitionist, and Art South Africa. Silva was a member of the international jury for the Pinchuk Art Centre’s Future Generation Art Prize (2014), as well as the 55th Venice Biennale (2013). She was curator for Marker, West Africa at Art Dubai (2013) and has been a member of the jury for the BMW Prize at Art Basel (2014&2015) and the selection committee for Art Dubai.” Nigeria’s foremost art collector, business leader and patron, Prince Yemisi Adedoyin Shyllon, in his reaction, described the late Silva as Nigeria’s numero uno of art curatorial practice. “Bisi Silva’s fame in the world of curatorial practice of contextual and post modernist art transcends Africa. “She was art all through, with some great depth of knowledge about it all. She was recognised, accepted and globally well sought after, as Nigeria’s numero uno of art curatorial practise. Without my playing to the gallery; it would take a long time for us to have another Bisi. She was so good at what she did, yet was so simple about it all,” Shyllon stated. Similarly, the President, Society of Nigerian Artists (SNA), Oliver Enwonwu, in his reaction, expressed sadness at the passing on of Silva, adding that she was one of the most significant figures in Nigeria’s cultural space.
“It was with great sadness that I received news of the passing away of Bisi Silva, one of the most significant figures in Nigeria’s cultural space.
“A world renowned curator, we are comforted with her enduring legacy hinged on her sterling contributions to the increased visibility and appreciation of contemporary African art, through research, education and exhibitions. We celebrate her vision and hard work in inspiring a generation of artists, collectors, students and art enthusiasts across the African continent.  “She will be sorely missed by all who knew her and by the visual arts community in Nigeria,” Enwonwu stated. Also, the National Coordinator, CORA/Arterial Network Nigeria, Ayodele Ganiu, described the death of Silva as a big loss to the creative sector, especially the visual arts community both at home and abroad. “I take solace in the opportunity I had to work and learn from her wealth of knowledge and experience,” he stated.