Hundreds of women in Imo State yesterday took to the streets of Owerri to protest alleged misconduct by the military and other security agencies during last Saturday’s Presidential and National Assembly elections.  The women, dressed in all black attires, stormed the 34 Field Artillery Brigade, Obinze, called on the Army high command to caution soldiers to stay away from politics and elections. Presenting a petition to the representative of the Commanding Officer (CO), leaders of the group, Mrs. Uju Ihejiagwa and Nwando Anyasinti (a lawyer), bemoaned what they described as day-light robbery, disruption and hijack of the election process by some soldiers and other security operatives during last Saturday’s elections.  They described the announcement of Governor Rochas Okorocha as senator-elect for Orlu zone as fraudulent.  “Governor Rochas Okorocha committed electoral fraud by using Military Force, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and thugs to intimidate, harass and maim unsuspecting and unprotected Imo voters. He connived with some staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to subvert the wish of the people, by manipulating the outcome of the election and ensuring the announcement of fake results.  “We also protest the brutal assassination of two of our sons at Ejemekwuru in Oguta Local Government Area, during the governor’s campaign rally in the area. The governor used security agencies to harass, intimidate and rig the elections in the February 23rd election. Collation agents were intimidated and molested. Electoral materials were stolen and fake results written, submitted and announced, with the aid of INEC officials.  “We hereby request that the military and other security agents desist from being used to rig elections anymore in Imo State. We call on the Brigade Commander of 34 Field Artillery Brigade, Obinze, to warn and caution his boys to desist from getting involved in electoral fraud.  “We also call on the Imo State Commissioner of Police to give same orientation to his men in the Police Force to stay off actions that aid electoral fraud and subversion of the people’s wish. Our security agencies should show that the shame of these misconducts gives them concern or have they also lost every sense of shame?” the protesters said.  They also marched to the Imo State headquarters of INEC, where they warned the commission to desist from aiding electoral fraud in the state, while calling on the commission to restore all alleged stolen mandates.
In his response, while receiving the protesters, Head, Voter Education of the INEC in the state, Mr. Sunday Adedoyin, assured them that the commission would look into the issues raised, with a view to ensuring that necessary steps were taken to forestall future occurrence.
The women also took their protest to the Imo State Police Headquarters, Headquarters of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), as well as the Department of State Services (DSS), where they also delivered the same message.