Yakubu Adesokan is one of Nigeria’s most prominent para power-lifters with successes at global stage like the Olympics and Commonwealth Games. In this interview with LUKMAN OLOGUNRO, among other things, he reaffirmed his desire to keep Nigeria’s flag flying at the world stage   How did you come into sports? I’m Yakubu Adesokan, MON aka Agbara po (too much power). I’m a native of Ibadan that was where I was born and bred. I’m also a resident of Ibadan and blessed with four kids. Right from my early days, I have been a sports lover particularly football and it’s just appropriate that I am making my living through sports. So why did you settle for powerlifting? Actually I never knew about powerlifting but due to my love for sports I was always going to w a t c h Shooting Stars of Ibadan play at Ad- amasingba Stadium. It was after one of their games that I saw people playing table tennis and I was told to get a (bat) racket if I wanted to join but the price to get the racket was beyond what I could afford so one of them just jokingly said maybe I should go and try weightlifting. I spoke with a few of them and they allowed me. I lifted up to 90 kg on my first try and that marked the beginning of my career in para powerlifting. So far what have you achieved in the sports? I have achieved a lot and I thank God for this. I have been making my mark in the sport, wining various championships across the world. I have been to the Olympics as well as the Commonwealth Games. I won a gold medal at the 2012 Olympics in London and also won gold at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. I have also broken and set world records at various times at major championships across the world. The sport has also taken me to various countries like France, Korea, Australia England and I thank my stars for everything I have been able to achieve in the sport. What really worked for me is that I set a target of becoming star when I came into sport; I didn’t see money as priority. I knew if I became a star, money would not be difficult to make and I thank God things have worked out the way I want. You have been recounting all the positive experiences, what are the challenges you faced especially in your early days in the sport? To be sincere, I went through many challenges ranging from lack of financial support for transportation to training. I also had several injuries and there was little or no help. I went into debt because I had to borrow money to take care of the injury. Most of the people around me were expecting me to quit but because I knew I had what it takes to succeed in the sport, I never gave up. The injury would have stopped me but I was determined not to relent. Even after the injury incident which took me about six months to recover from, I lost one of my child. We went for a competition abroad and my male child took ill. I met him in a critical condition and by the time we took him to hospital we couldn’t raise the money for his treatment on time and he died at the hospital. Thankfully, I have put that behind now because I have been blessed with more children and I‘m living much better as gains from powerlifting. I have met with presidents, governors, ministers, top dignitaries. I’m popular across the world in the sport and the Nigerian government also honoured me with a national award, MON. One thing that the sport has taught me is to be determined in life because all what I have achieved in the sport is through determination. Like I pointed out, I could have stopped when I was incurring debt while I was injured but I thank God I never let that and other setbacks to stop me from the sport. You were at the last Olympics in Rio, could you recall your experience? It’s a very good feeling to be an Olympian because that is the biggest stage in sports but unfortunately, one of my disappointing experiences in sport was at the last Olympics in Rio, Brazil, where we were not allowed to participate by arriving a few minutes late for the weigh-in. You can imagine what it means to travel round the world to get points to qualify for the Olympics only for you to be disqualified for arriving late. All appeals made were rejected because most of the countries knew that we were favourites, so they saw it as a chance for them to shine. So there was no way we could have appealed because it would have been followed by protest letters by other countries. All the same we are grateful that we attended the games even though we couldn’t compete. That has even made us to prepare better for the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo. Fortunately, the Olympic qualifiers events that we have been attending have been good, and most of our athletes are inching towards qualification. Personally, I’m in great form and by God’s grace I will add another Olympics medal to my collection of titles in Tokyo. I have to emphasize my point by adding a divine appeal to my dream because of what we experienced in Rio where we went there in killer form but circumstances stopped us from competing after all the efforts we put in to compete there. How would you describe your experience at the World Para Powerlifting Championship which took place recently in Nigeria? It was a great privilege that a championship of such nature was held in Nigeria and it was befitting that we won the overall tournament which confirms our position as the leading nation in para powerlifting. With what we experienced at the championship we can say we will have a successful outing at the 2020 Olympics. There are new sets of stars which means someone like me has to step up. It’s a healthy rivalry which will benefit Nigeria in the long run. It’s good to see new sets of lifters competing with us at the top level. What this means is that Nigeria can use para powerlifting to empower people with disabilities. It can also be used to curb the menace of street begging which is rampant in the country. Governments need to show extra care to the disabled people. We should be enjoying free transportation because mobility is often our most serious challenge and this is why I would commend the Lagos State Government for the free ride it has been giving disabled athletes on its state run transport, BRT. It has really helped the careers of most of the disabled sportsmen and women in Lagos. Other states should also follow suit. I reside in Ibadan and I would love to have that kind of opportunity as well. We have consistently shone for Nigeria at various international championships and it would be logical if we get the same kind of attention like the able bodied athletes. In fact, we need much more care. You have achieved a lot for Nigeria at international level, what do you think you still owe the country and what in turn would you say the country owes you? I thank God that I was given the privilege to represent Nigeria across the world, and I feel I can still win more laurels for the country and by God’s grace, the All Africa Games coming up later in the year is one of my prime targets to win gold for Nigeria. As I pointed out earlier, the Olympics in Tokyo is also very much in my mind. On what the country owes me; I would like to see the country do more for us disabled people and I mean every disabled person. We should enjoy social benefits like other disabled in advanced countries. I believe the government can do it because Nigeria is a very rich country; it’s just a question of government commitment. In the case of those of us who are sportsmen, most of us are the bread winners of our family but the struggle we pass through is just too much. Even beyond government, rich people are not showing enough passion for disabled sportsmen. The likes of Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola among other billionaires have not really identified with us and it’s rather unfortunate. Same with other multinational companies who would rather identify with footballers whenever they win a competition for Nigeria but in our own case, they don’t even show any concern. Those footballers that they are spending money on are very comfortable so it would be good if they can look towards us as well. Those footballers might not even be moved with the amount they get from them because they are earning big in Europe but in our own case such amount could be life-changing. The last time it was Prophet TB Joshua of the Synagogue Church of all Nations in Lagos that hosted us after the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi, India, in 2010. He gave gold medallists N1 million and those of us that won three gold medals each got car addition. Silver medallists got N 500, 000 and bronze medallists got N300, 000. Even fellow disabled that accompanied us got N50, 000 each. That was one of my happiest moments in terms of being appreciated as a sportsman. Prominent and wealthy Nigerians can emulate him because we can’t be active sportsmen forever.