Tonya Lawani is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Seal Group, and the author of iSucceed Business Planner. In this interview with PAUL OGBUOKIRI, she says she is boosting entrepreneurship in Nigeria  What is your assessment of your just-concluded Lagos Enterprise Summit? The Lagos Enterprise Summit was a resounding success. We set out to bring together policy makers, successful entrepreneurs and new entrants into the entrepreneurship space. Our aim was to provide a platform where success stories can be shared and several lessons taken home. We want this platform to provide an opportunity for policy makers to hear the issues that entrepreneurs were facing and form a basis for the solutions the government will provide. From the attendance and feedback, we believe we were able to achieve all of these.
You must have seen the success in the caliber of people in attendance. As you must have seen, the governorship candidate of APC in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his running mate, Mr. Hamzat and many other top people were there. The winner of the start-up pack went home with the sum of N450, 000.  How do you intend to do to sustain it? We believe people will naturally draw towards successful initiatives. Another draw is an initiative that is ‘problem solving’. The Lagos Enterprise Summit embodies these two characteristics. We doubt that sustainability will be a problem with the plans we have in place. The focus for us now is to consolidate on the success of 2019 towards a successful conference in 2020, a conference on a much larger scale.  How do you see progress women are currently making in business? We are beginning to see visible advancement with women in business and even leadership roles. Though visible, it is still quite small. Some companies are driving inclusion and diversity and pushing for more representation of women on boards. I am more inclined towards women earning their places and I urge more women to step up and take on more responsibilities. On the entrepreneurship scene, there are quite a huge number of women founders and start-ups. What these female-led start-ups generally lack are mentorships and capital support. It will be great if women who have walked these paths can mentor other women and help them move beyond the hurdle of the initial startup phase.   How easy has it been competing with their male counterparts? We are definitely not in a competition. The idea of mentoring more women and pushing for more women start-ups to succeed is not to compete with the men in business already but rather to create a level playing field for all and ensure that women who want to take up leadership roles or go into business are armed with the necessary information they will need to succeed. Several studies have also shown that women led businesses tend to do rather well and so, that can be seen as an advantage to the business owners as opposed to a basis for competition.   To what extent will you say small are medium scale companies are being encouraged?  I must laud the work that organisations like the Bank of Industry (BoI) and LSETF have done to encourage significant growth in the MSMEs space. We are beginning to see a lot of attention in this space and the government is spearheading it. It is clear that any nation that wants to grow its economy has to push for home grown businesses to thrive and with all the other social ventures which also target small businesses, we are seeing more and more people thriving.   Will you say BoI has been doing much in providing soft loans? Absolutely, the Bank of Industry is doing really great things as a development-driven bank.
We happen to be a beneficiary of the BoI business support and so as an ambassador, I can confidently say that the BoI is driving the nation one business at a time.
For instance, it has the BoI Entrepreneurship Fund (GEF) Programme, a special scheme that encourages and promote entrepreneurship among NYSC members by providing up to N2million loan at zero per cent interest rate to support entrepreneurship and potential viable businesses.   What are the prospects in your line of business, what level of buy-in and how huge is it? The business has huge prospects. We identified a ready market with an ever-growing demand side and the benefits have been phenomenal. We provide quite a number of services in – printing, gifting, advertising, merchandising and hospitality. The buy-in is great and there are more opportunities for other people to key into the industry.   What is the philosophy behind the summit and what are the benefits? The Lagos Enterprise Summit was set up to help address the operational problems entrepreneurs typically face when at the early stages of their business. Attendees were provided with success tools and adequate guidance to scale their businesses. We also used it to draw the attention of key stakeholders in the public sector in Lagos to the major issues small businesses face and proffer solutions on how these issues can be addressed by government. The summit will be hosted annually.   What is your take on the drive towards entrepreneurship in Nigeria? Yes, anyone can be an entrepreneur- once they can identify opportunities and assemble the necessary resources to capitalise on the opportunities for the purpose of achieving profit and growth in the face of risk and uncertainty and of course stay resilient in the rough entrepreneurial journey. Being an entrepreneur is blood and sweat, it is grit, hard work, dedication, passion and resilience.   How do you think young ones can embrace entrepreneurship?
Most of our Nigerian youths have entrepreneurial spirit and in most cases they only need that push from the system or even just from mentors to drive on with their dreams to their visions. They should be encouraged because through enterprises, jobs are created each day.   What role does mentorship play?
The SEAL Group engages in several mentorship programmes. I engage personally in several conferences every year especially when they are gatherings of start-ups to share my experience and entrepreneurial journey with attendees so that they understand that the road is never smooth   You mentioned that you had previously failed in business, what was the cause?
I have not failed only once, I have had several failures. Failures will never overtake you if your determination to succeed is strong enough. Truly, the biggest reason for failure with entrepreneurs is procrastination.  Like, I would always say- Just start it! Only two things can happen- you win or you lose! But either way, you learn. One of my biggest failures in my entrepreneurial journey was from lack of planning and foresight! Which made a change in government regulation s with customs agency hit us terribly and made us as a business struggle for such a long period. At the end business decisions had to be made to rise us up above it all- and yes we ventured into manufacturing locally and here we are today even though we experienced such a huge loss!
Being a business planner is not a common thing in this clime, can you share how this can be of benefit to the users  The iSucceed Business Planner will help every entrepreneur and smart manager priotise tasks to maximise productivity! The planner will help the user stop procrastination, so complete tasks before deadlines, measure progress, make better business decisions, Launch new ideas, minimalise your stress and speed up the process to success!   What would you say will help sustain businesses in Nigeria?  …Resilience against all odds.  What factors should prospective entrepreneurs look out for when choosing a line of business? Entrepreneurs should follow their dreams and just make sure there’s some passion in that dream… the factors will show up as they begin the journey! What unique rewards would you say you have experienced as an entrepreneur. Fulfillment – that’s the true reward of entrepreneurship and its end goal. One of my business mentors always said to me “every morning I wake up, I make up my mind to solve as many problems, before retiring home.” Solving problems here, he means taking advantage of opportunities.
I started out with trading as a university undergraduate, a passion that helped me to hone my skills in business. I developed a notable drive for starting up and successfully growing my business organically. I have built many years of outstanding leadership and management skills. My ability to grow businesses successfully till date in the unique terrains of Nigeria is laudable.