TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE profiles the presidential candidates for today’s election   Today, millions of Nigerians, who are eligible to vote will go out to elect the person that will occupy Aso Villa, the seat of power, from May 29. They are expected to pick from the 73 presidential candidates whose names are on the ballot paper for today’s presidential election. Among the presidential candidates are; President Muhammadu Buhari of All Progressives Congress (APC), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Donald Duke of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Kingsley Moghalu (Young Progressive Party, YPP), Gbenga Olawepo- Hashim (Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN), Omoyele Sowore (African Action Congress, AAC), Fela Durotoye (Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN), Oby Ezekwesili (Allied Congress Party of Nigeria, ACPN), Rev. (Prof.) Obaje (Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party, ANDP), Obadiah Mailafia (African Democratic Congress, ADC) and Chris Okotie (Fresh Democratic Party, FDP). Others are Tanko Yinusa of National Conscience Party (NCP), Hamza Al- Mustapha (Peoples Party of Nigeria, PPN), John Gbor (All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA), Tope Fasua (Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party, ANRP) and Ade Fagbenro Bryon (Kowa Party), Davidson Isibor Akhimien (Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria, GDPN), Yabagi Yusuf Sani (Action Democratic Party, ADP) and Ahmed Buhari (Sustainable National Party, (SNP) President Muhammadu Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari is the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The incumbent president, who assumed office about four years ago by defeating the then President Goodluck Jonathan, is seeking for re-election in today’s contest. Born on December 17, 1942, Buhari is a retired Major-General in the Nigerian Army and previously served as Head of State from December 31, 1983 to August 27, 1985. Buhari enrolled at age 19 in the Nigerian Military Training College (NMTC) in 1962. In January 1963, at age 20, he was commissioned a second lieutenant and appointed Platoon Commander of the Second Infantry Battalion in Abeokuta, Nigeria. From August 1, 1975 to February 3, 1976, ex-Head of State, General Murtala Mohammed, appointed Buhari as Governor of the North-Eastern State, to oversee social, economic and political improvements in the state. Buhari also briefly served as Governor of Borno State from February 3, 1976 to March 15, 1976. In March 1976, the then Head of State, General Olusegun Obasanjo, appointed Buhari as the Federal Commissioner for Petroleum and Natural Resources. When the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was created in 1977, Buhari was also appointed as its Chairman, a position he held until 1978. From 1978 to 1979, Buhari was Military Secretary at the Army Headquarters and was a member of the Supreme Military Council. From 1979 to 1983, he was General Officer Commanding for many Division in Nigeria Army. In 1983, when Chadian forces invaded Nigeria in the Borno State, Buhari used the forces under his command to chase them out of the country, crossing into Chadian territory in spite of an order given by President Shagari to withdraw. Following the coup that truncated the Second Republic that led to exit of President Shehu Shagari, Buhari served as Head of State between December 31, 1983 and August 27, 1985. After retiring from Nigerian Army, Buhari served as Chairman of the Petroleum Trust Fund during the regime of ex-Head of State, General Sani Abacha. In 2003, Buhari ran for office in the presidential election as the candidate of the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) and was defeated by then President Olusegun Obasanjo, who ran on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He contested again on the platform of ANPP in 2011 and lost the election to the PDP’s candidate, Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua, who also hailed from his home state, Kastina. Buhari also ran for presidency on the platform of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), and lost to President Goodluck Jonathan. After three failed attempts, the tide changed during 2015 as Buhari, who ran on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), defeated the incumbent President Jonathan of PDP, ending the reign of the then ruling party, who has been at the helms of affairs since May 29, 1999. He is running for second term in today’s presidential election. Atiku Abubakar Atiku, the presidential candidate of PDP was a vice to President Olusegun Obasanjo between May 29, 1999 and May 29, 2007. Atiku born on November 25, 1946, is a politician, businessman and philanthropist. He was a retired Custom Officer. He worked in the Nigeria Customs Service for 20 years, rising to become the Deputy Director, as the second highest position in the Service was then known. He retired in April 1989 and took up full-time business and politics. His first foray into politics was in the early 1980s, when he worked behind-thescenes on the governorship campaign of Bamanga Tukur, who at that time was Managing Director of the Nigeria Ports Authority. He canvassed for votes on behalf of Tukur, and also donated to the campaign. Towards the end of his Customs career, he met Shehu Musa Yar’Adua, who had been second-incommand of the military government that ruled Nigeria between 1976 and 1979. Abubakar was drawn by Yar’Adua into the political meetings that were now happening regularly in Yar’Adua’s Lagos home. In 1989 Abubakar was elected a National Vice-Chairman of the Peoples Front of Nigeria, the political association led by Yar’Adua, to participate in the transition programme initiated by Head of State Ibrahim Babangida. Atiku won a seat to represent his constituency at the 1989 Constituent Assembly, set up to decide a new constitution for Nigeria. The People’s Front was eventually denied registration by the government and found a place within the Social Democratic Party (SDP), one of the two parties decreed into existence by the regime. He ran for the office of governor in the former Gongola State (now Adamawa and Taraba states) in 1991, and for the Presidency in 1993, placing third after MKO Abiola and Babagana Kingibe in the SDP primaries. In 1998, Atiku was elected Governor of Adamawa State. While still governorelect, he was picked by then presidential candidate of the PDP, Olusegun Obasanjo, as his running mate. The duo went on to win presidential election in February 1999, and Atiku was sworn-in as Nigeria’s second democratically elected vice president on May 29, 1999. However, his second term as Vice President was marked by a stormy relationship with President Obasanjo. His bid to succeed Obasanjo did not receive the latter’s support, and it took a judgment of the Supreme Court to allow Atiku contest after he was initially disqualified by the Independent National Electoral Commission on the grounds that he had been indicted for financial misconduct by an investigating panel set up at Obasanjo’s behest. The Supreme Court ordered the electoral commission to restore Atiku’s name onto the presidential ballot. Subesequently, he ran on the platform of the Action Congress, having quit the PDP on account of his issues with President Obasanjo. Abubakar lost the election, placing third after Umaru Yar’Adua and Muhammadu Buhari of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). Prior to the 2011 elections, Atiku returned to the PDP. In October 2010 he announced his intention to contest for the presidency and on November 22, a Committee of Northern Elders selected him as the northern consensus’ candidate, over former Military President Ibrahim Babangida, former National Security Adviser Aliyu Gusau and the then governor Bukola Saraki of Kwara State. In January 2011, he contested for the presidential ticket of his party alongside President Jonathan and Sarah Jubril, and lost the primary, garnering 805 votes to President Jonathan’s 2,736. On February 2, 2014, Atiku left the PDP to the join APC with the intent of contesting the presidency in 2015 on the party’s platform. He took part in the party’s primaries and lost to Buhari. He later defected to the PDP on November 24, 2017. He took part in the PDP presidential primary and defeated 11 other aspirants to emerge as PDP candidate in today’s election. Donald Duke Duke, the presidential candidate of Social Democratic Party (SDP), is a former governor of Cross River State. He is not a novice in politics and he has been an active player in Nigeria’s politics since 1999. Duke served for two uninterrupted terms as the governor of Cross River State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from 1999 to 2007. This is not the first term Duke is throwing his hat into the ring for presidential election. He first declared for presidency on the platform of PDP in 2016 but the odds were against him as then President Olusegun Obasanjo backed Umar Yar’Adua for the presidency and he eventually won the election. Following the loss of the PDP during the 2015 general elections, Duke was among those who left the party and pitched support for a ‘Third Force’ led by Obasanjo. He later defected to SDP and won the party’s presidential ticket. His victory was challenged in the court by former Minister of Information and National Orientation, Prof. Jerry Gana. But Duke prevailed as the Appeal Court ruled in his favour. Oby Ezekwesili Former Minister of Education and co-founder of the ‘Bring Back Our Girls’ movement, Oby Ezekwesili, is the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN). Though she had already announced her withdrawal from the presidential race, her name will still be on the ballot paper because she withdrew late from the race. Apart from serving in different positions during the Obasanjo administration, Ezekwesili, a former vice president of the World Bank, is best known for leading the movement that has been demanding freedom for all girls kidnapped by the Boko Haram terror group. Ezekwesili’s withdrawal from the presidential race generated a lot of controversy as her decision pitched her against ACPN leadership, which has already endorsed President Buhari as its presidential candidate. Ezekwesili born on April 28, 1963, hails from Anambra State. She was a cofounder of Transparency International, serving as one of the pioneer directors of the global anti-corruption body based in Berlin, Germany. She served as Minister of Solid Minerals and Minister of Education during the second-term presidency of Olusegun Obasanjo. Ezekwesili was a 2018 nominee for the Nobel Peace Prize for her work in transparency in the extractive sector. She holds a Master’s degree in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos, as well as a Master of Public Administration degree from the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. Kingsley Moghalu Moghalu, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, is the presidential candidate of the Young Progressive Party (YPP) for today’s election. He is a political economist, lawyer, former United Nations official, and professor in international business and public policy. Moghalu served as deputy governor of financial system stability and the director of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) from 2009 to 2014; he led the implementation of reforms to Nigeria’s failing banking sector. He is a member of the International Islamic Liquidity Management Corporation and non-executive director of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria. Moghalu was born in Lagos in 1963 and he spent his early childhood in Switzerland and Washington, DC, where his father was posted. He obtained a Master’s degree in 1992 at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, where he was the Joan Gillespie Fellow and a research assistant in the International Political Economy programme. Moghalu later obtained a PhD in International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science at the University of London. He joined the United Nations in 1992. His first assignment was in Cambodia as a UN human rights and elections officer with the United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia. A year later, he was appointed political affairs officer in the department of peacekeeping operations at the UN Headquarters in New York. From 1996 to 1997, he served in the former Yugoslavia as political advisor to the special representative of the UN Secretary-General in Croatia. In 2002, Moghalu was appointed to the World Health Organisation in Geneva, Switzerland, as head of global partnerships and resource mobilisation at The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM), a public-private international development finance organisation and social investment fund with $20 billion in assets and investments in 140 developing and middle income countries. In February 2018, Moghalu declared his interest to run for the presidency of Nigeria and later emerged as the presidential candidate of YPP Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim He is the presidential candidate of the Peoples Trust. Olawepo-Hashim is a successful businessman with about 26 years of successful business history, especially in the oil sector. He is a graduate of Mass Communication from the University of Lagos and Masters Degree holder in Global Affairs from the University of Buckingham, United Kingdom. Born of a Yoruba mother and a Hausa father from Kebbi, Olawepo-Hashim launched an audacious presidential enterprise first on the ANN platform before finally pitching his tent with the PT. Chris Okotie Rev. Okotie, the founder and General Overseer of the Household of God Church, a Pentecostal congregation in Lagos State, is the presidential candidate of Fresh Democratic Party (FDP). A musician and lawyer turned pastor, he attended the Grace Fellowship Bible School in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and, soon after, established the Household of God Ministry. He first made his declaration to contest for president in the 2003 general elections under the National Democratic Party (NDP) but lost the party’s ticket to a retired military officer and former chairman of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, Major General Ike Nwachukwu (rtd). Okotie then dumped the NDP for the Justice Party, becoming the party’s standard bearer for February 8, 2003 presidential election and lost the election to Obasanjo of the PDP. Undeterred, Okotie registered the Fresh Democratic Party (FDP) prior to 2007 presidential election and ran for 2007 and 2011 elections but his attempts to rule Nigeria failed as he lost in both elections. Yusuf Obaje Rev. (Prof.) Obaje is the presidential candidate of Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP). He was the Chaplain to the president between May 1999 and June 2005. Whilst he had made unsuccessful attempts at becoming the governor of Kogi State, his foray to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to pick the party’s presidential ticket also failed. But, he eventually became the candidate of the Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party for the 2019 presidential contest. A thoroughbred minister of the Baptist Church, Obaje was Chancellor, Bowen University, Iwo, between 2003 and 2005; president, Nigerian Baptist Convention (2003- 2005); president, Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, Ogbomoso (1993-2003); president, Nigeria Theological Education Council and chairman, Nigerian Baptist Convention Theological Education Council (1993-2003), among others. Omoyele Sowore The Publisher of Sahara Reporters, an online publication, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, is the presidential candidate of African Action Congress. His decision to vie for the presidency took the political scene by storm. The Ondo State born activist and former student union leader founded the African Action Congress (AAC) alongside his #TakeItBack Movement allies and the party was registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission in August, 2018. Sowore’s passion and desire in media was propelled during the military rule. He studied Geography and Regional Planning at the University of Lagos from 1989 to 1995 with his academic programme extended by two extra years after being expelled twice for political reasons and student activism. He was the president of the University of Lagos Students Union Government between 1992 and 1994 where he was keenly involved in anti-cultism and anti-corruption advocacy. Tope Fasua Fasua is the presidential candidate of Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). Apart from being a presidential candidate, the 47-year-old renowned businessman and economist, is also the national chairman of the party, one of Nigeria’s newly registered parties. The party was registered in December 2017. Fasua obtained his first degree in Economics from the old Ondo State University and a Master’s degree in Financial Markets and Derivatives from the UK. He has vast experiences in the banking sector. He is the Chief Executive Officer of Global Analytics Consulting Ltd. Yabagi Sani Dr. Sani is the presidential candidate as well the national chairman of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), one of the political parties registered after 2015 elections. He had his early education in 1961 at East Primary School Bida in Niger State and later attended Secondary Technical School, Kontagora, from 1970-1974. Sani had his tertiary education in the United States where he was awarded Bachelor of Science Degree in Industrial Management Engineering in 1978, by the Colombia University, New York, United States. He was the former national financial secretary of the Liberal Convention, which later merged with other associations to become the now defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) in 1991. Sani, was a founding member and former member of the Board of Trustees of All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP.) He was the 1999 Gubernatorial Candidate of All Peoples Party (APP) in Niger State. Fela Durotoye Durotoye, the presidential candidate of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) is a household name, especially in motivational and leadership training circles. He is not just a smooth talker but a manager of resources and people as exemplified in the way he is successfully running his organisation, GEMSTONE Group, a leadership development Institution. Born on May 12, 1971 in Ibadan, Oyo State, Durotoye has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science with Economics, Master’s degree in Business Administration (M.B.A) and a Master of Philosophy Degree (M.Phil) in Strategic Management, from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State. Ahmed Buhari Ahmed Buhari, the presidential candidate of the Sustainable National Party (SNP), is not a relation of the incumbent president, but is desirous of having another Buhari in Aso Rock. Popularly referred to Ahmed Bee, this first son of a military man is, perhaps, one of the few young aspirants that have moved his ambition to rule Africa’s most populous country from the social media sphere to the streets. Born and raised from an average family setting in Kontagora, Niger State, 39-year-old Buhari acquired a B.Sc. degree in Geology from the Federal University of Technology Minna, Niger state in 2005. Tanko Yinusa Yinusa is the presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP). Apart from being a presidential candidate, he is also the national chairman of the party. He is not a novice in the presidential election, having run in the past as the vice presidential candidate of the party. He is one of the strong followers of the founder of NCP and renowned human rights activist, late Gani Fawehinmi. President Muhammadu Buhari and other presidential candidates, including Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are to sign Peace Accord to ensure smooth conduct of 2019 general elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event, slated for International Conference Centre, Abuja, on… In "News" The contest for the 2019 general elections is getting clearer as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday released list of presidential and National Assembly candidates. Among the cleared candidates are the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari and his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)… In "News" As the most populous nation in Africa, Nigeria, elects a president this weekend, it is not only choosing a head of state, but a head of government and a commander-in-chief of the largest democracy in the continent, FELIX NWANERI reports     It is expected to be a nail-biting finish… In "Politics"