The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has said that the peace accord signed by the two frontline Presidential candidates, Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and Atiku Abubakar of the PDP. Is virtually dead. Prince Secondus said that all the terms of the agreement for peace has been broken by the ruling APC who has deployed military and the Police operatives to arrest and detain PDP. leaders across the country. The National Chairman said that the party expects the Peace Committee and the international community to note the declaration of war on PDP leaders across the country by over zealous security operatives specially raised for this purpose as they operate in violation of the peace accord. The National Chairman said that the APC and President Buhari are not disposed for the peace as they have flagrantly violated the terms of the agreement. Prince Secondus said in a statement from his media office that reports reaching him from Kwara, Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Kano Kaduna and other states show that PDP leaders are being harassed with arrest and detention by security operatives on flimsy reasons. In a statement signed by Signed by his Special Adviser, Media, Ike Abonyi, Secondus noted that while APC is using military and Police personnel to chase PDP leaders across the country, they continue to give protection to APC leaders as they ferry money and election materials to various locations. “Private jets belonging to APC leader in Lagos have been stationed at the airports protected by government operatives as money is being moved from the Central bank of Nigeria, CBN, to states,” he alleged. The PDP boss said that General Abdulsalmi Abubakar led peace committee should take copious notice of all the happenings and note that APC and President Buhari are not disposed to any peace accord. Prince Secondus said that all the ingredients of peace have been disregarded by the APC operatives who have decided to even run foul of the Electoral Act in their desperation to cling on to power even when it’s obvious that Nigerians have turned their back on them. National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus on Saturday accused President Muhammadu Buhari of trying to destroy the judicial system in the country 30 days before the General Elections Secondus, speaking to thousands of PDP supporters during the Presidential Campaign Rally, which held at the famous Jos,… In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has postponed the presidential and National Assembly elections earlier scheduled to hold on February 16, by one week. The elections will now hold on February 23, while the governorship and State Assembly elections, which were to hold on March 2, have been shifted to… In "News" National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus said the positions of two former Nigerian leaders – Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and Gen. Ibrahim Babangida (rtd) – on non-suitability of President Muhammadu Buhari to contest the 2019 presidential election, have vindicated the party. Obasanjo and Babangida, in separate… In "News"