 Ahead of tomorrow’s election, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, has met with Service Chiefs, and other heads of security and intelligence agencies. Briefing journalists shortly after the security meeting, the CDS revealed plots by unscrupulous elements to use military and para-military agencies, ostensibly to intimidate voters, as well as undermine the process. This was as he further alerted of illegal possession of firearms and their eventual deployment to cause mayhem during the process of electioneering. Consequently, Olonisakin warned that the military and security agencies would isolate and deal with individuals or groups found culpable. The CDS, nonetheless, urged eligible voters to come out en-masse to exercise their franchise, pledging the readiness of the Armed Forces and sister security agencies to provide adequate security for the exercise. “It has become necessary to issue this statement, following the meeting of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and security and intelligence agencies, which has just ended. In the last few months, various security agencies have been reviewing their strategies to ensure adequate security and protection for all Nigerians and other nationals living in Nigeria before, during and after the General Elections in February and March 2019. “This is in line with our various constitutional responsibilities. There have also been several interagency collaborations and harmonization of these strategies. “The meeting we have just had involved the heads of these agencies to ensure we further harmonize our strategies to provide adequate security for the smooth conduct of the general elections”, Olonisakin said. He further disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari had, at a security meeting with heads of military and security agencies, emphasised his commitment to a free, fair and credible election. His words: “In two days’ time, the 2019 general elections will begin. The Nigerian government, the people of Nigeria, as well as the international community, are all desirous of a free, fair, transparent, credible and most importantly, violence free elections. Mr. President, Commander-in-Chief has also told us in clear terms in our meeting with him, of his commitment to free, fair and credible elections. I wish to say that the Armed Forces of Nigeria, as well as other security and intelligence agencies, are also committed to a violence free elections and that all Nigerians eligible to vote are able to carry out their civic responsibility and vote for candidates of their choice without any fear of molestation by any person or group.” On alleged plans to impersonate the military, the four-star General said: “We are not unaware of plans to illegally use uniforms of military/paramilitary agencies to impersonate security and law enforcement agencies; illegal possession and use of firearms to intimidate and harass members of the public; and other acts likely to cause security breaches. “Let me warn that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies will not tolerate any act that is likely to cause security breaches before, during and after the elections, and will deal decisively with these acts, irrespective of those involved. “Members of the public are also advised to disregard the call to stay at home on the day of the election being circulated in some parts of the country. The stay-at-home leaflets being circulated and similar on-line messages are part of the handiwork of mischief-makers who are bent on scuttling the process and should be ignored. I want to assure the general public that the security services are prepared to support the Police to ensure safe conduct of the elections”. While reiterating the authorities’ resolve to remain apolitical, the CDS noted thus: “It is important to reiterate that law enforcement agencies will remain apolitical. Besides, Code of Conduct for the Armed Forces of Nigeria for the 2019 General Elections have been issued to the Services and security personnel that will be deployed for election security duties. “All other personnel who are not so deployed for election security duties have been directed to steer clear of the elections apart from exercising their rights to vote for candidates of their choice. I would also like to appeal to all Nigerians to adhere strictly to the restrictions on movement during the period of the elections”. In the meantime, Olonisakin advised the public to adhere strictly to the restriction order while the polls lasted, warning that violators would be punished appropriately. “Violators of the restriction on movement, no matter how highly placed, will be arrested CDS, Service Chiefs, security heads meet …vow to deal with security breach …uncover plans to use military uniforms, use of firearms Ahead of tomorrow’s election, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, has met with Service Chiefs, and other heads of security and intelligence agencies. Briefing journalists shortly after the security meeting, the CDS revealed plots by unscrupulous elements to use military and para-military agencies, ostensibly to intimidate voters, as well as undermine the process. This was as he further alerted of illegal possession of firearms and their eventual deployment to cause mayhem during the process of electioneering. Consequently, Olonisakin warned that the military and security agencies would isolate and deal with individuals or groups found culpable. The CDS, nonetheless, urged eligible voters to come out en-masse to exercise their franchise, pledging the readiness of the Armed Forces and sister security agencies to provide adequate security for the exercise. “It has become necessary to issue this statement, following the meeting of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and security and intelligence agencies, which has just ended. In the last few months, various security agencies have been reviewing their strategies to ensure adequate security and protection for all Nigerians and other nationals living in Nigeria before, during and after the General Elections in February and March 2019. “This is in line with our various constitutional responsibilities. There have also been several interagency collaborations and harmonization of these strategies. “The meeting we have just had involved the heads of these agencies to ensure we further harmonize our strategies to provide adequate security for the smooth conduct of the general elections”, Olonisakin said. He further disclosed that President Muhammadu Buhari had, at a security meeting with heads of military and security agencies, emphasised his commitment to a free, fair and credible election. His words: “In two days’ time, the 2019 general elections will begin. The Nigerian government, the people of Nigeria, as well as the international community, are all desirous of a free, fair, transparent, credible and most importantly, violence free elections. Mr. President, Commander-in-Chief has also told us in clear terms in our meeting with him, of his commitment to free, fair and credible elections. I wish to say that the Armed Forces of Nigeria, as well as other security and intelligence agencies, are also committed to a violence free elections and that all Nigerians eligible to vote are able to carry out their civic responsibility and vote for candidates of their choice without any fear of molestation by any person or group.” On alleged plans to impersonate the military, the four-star General said: “We are not unaware of plans to illegally use uniforms of military/paramilitary agencies to impersonate security and law enforcement agencies; illegal possession and use of firearms to intimidate and harass members of the public; and other acts likely to cause security breaches. “Let me warn that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies will not tolerate any act that is likely to cause security breaches before, during and after the elections, and will deal decisively with these acts, irrespective of those involved. “Members of the public are also advised to disregard the call to stay at home on the day of the election being circulated in some parts of the country. The stay-at-home leaflets being circulated and similar on-line messages are part of the handiwork of mischief-makers who are bent on scuttling the process and should be ignored. I want to assure the general public that the security services are prepared to support the Police to ensure safe conduct of the elections”. While reiterating the authorities’ resolve to remain apolitical, the CDS noted thus: “It is important to reiterate that law enforcement agencies will remain apolitical. Besides, Code of Conduct for the Armed Forces of Nigeria for the 2019 General Elections have been issued to the Services and security personnel that will be deployed for election security duties. “All other personnel who are not so deployed for election security duties have been directed to steer clear of the elections apart from exercising their rights to vote for candidates of their choice. I would also like to appeal to all Nigerians to adhere strictly to the restrictions on movement during the period of the elections”. In the meantime, Olonisakin advised the public to adhere strictly to the restriction order while the polls lasted, warning that violators would be punished appropriately. “Violators of the restriction on movement, no matter how highly placed, will be and detained. However, this restriction does not apply to those on election security duties, local and international observers/monitors and emergency and security services personnel on authorized duties only. “Finally, I wish to assure all peace-loving members of the public of the preparedness of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies to support a peaceful 2019 General Elections and to encourage all to go about their legitimate activities without fear of intimidation. I also want to encourage us to promptly report all suspicious activities to the law enforcement agencies”, he added. Present at the briefing, which held at the Defence Headquarters in Abuja, were: Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai (Chief of Army Staff); Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas (Chief of Naval Staff); Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (Chief of the Air Staff); Mr. Mohammed Adamu (Acting Inspector General of Police); Mr. Yusuf Bichi (Director-General, Department of State Services); Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, as well as the Chief of Defence Intelligence.