Former President, Dr Goodluck Ebele Jonathan is not one of the candidates in the race but he certainly has an important role to play in the 2019 General Election. Since his glorious exit from office following the outcome of the 2015 election, Jonathan has emerged as a role model of leadership and democracy not only in Nigeria but I’m Africa and across the world. In the last three years, he has had the privilege of leading Election Observation Missions, on behalf of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the African Union, to several countries As a member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Jonathan has become a rallying point for the party both in his home state of Bayelsa and across Nigeria. Having passed through the crucible of partisan politics and survived one of the most keenly contested elections in Nigeria, he is deemed well equiped to guide the current political actors navigate through the murky and shark -infested political waters. Although he holds no official portfolio, Jonathan has been more or less a Technical Adviser, working hard from the dressing room to ensure his club delivered the right tackkes and passes to earn them victory. In the build up to the general elections, Jonathan remains a rallying point for his party. He has attended a number of political rallies in strategic locations where his presence helped in no small measure to galvanize support for the party. He was at the flag off of the PDP Presidential Campaign Rally in Sokoto and recently made an appearance at the party’s presidential rally in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Due to his unassuming nature, Jonathan is also able to switch roles easily from being a party man to bring a statesman. This capacity to transmute to higher grounds has seen him making the desired impact in the league of former Presidents through the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation(GJF), a non-governmental organisation dedicated to promoting credible leadership and good governance in Africa. In a bid to make a direct impact on the forthcoming general elections in Nigeria, the GJF recently organised a one-day conference on Peaceful Elections and National Development in Abuja. The Conference was chaired by former Head of State of Nigeria and Chairman of the National Peace Committee, General Abdulsalami A. Abubakar. It was attended by over 550 participants, including former heads of state, members of the diplomatic community, development partners, the ECOWAS Commission, Nigeria Police Force, academia, civil society organisations, media, women and youth leaders. The theme of the conference which underscored the link between peace and national development, was applauded as timely, in view of the Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled to take place in a few days. The conference was geared towards sensitising Nigerians and Africa in general on the need to promote peaceful, credible, and transparent elections; support democratic values; promote the culture of peaceful political transitions and avert crisis in the 2019 General Elections. A communique issues at the end of the deliberations, indicated that the participants observed that peace and development were mutually reinforcing while violent conflicts we’re injurious to the psyche of people and the memory lingers for generations. They also observed that there has been an increasing use of politics, particularly, elections as instruments for dividing the population on the basis of primordial sentiments, such as ethnicity, religion and geography. ” Elections in Africa have been accorded far too much attention than the more important issues of good governance. Politicians in Africa deploy dehumanising labels and stereotypes in demonising each other despite the deadly backlash that these portend, as witnessed in Rwanda and Ogoni in Rivers state, southern Nigeria. “A significant number of the elections on the continent have been marred by varying degrees of violence, resulting in the preventable loss of lives and destruction of property. A significant number of the elections on the continent have been marred by varying degrees of violence, resulting in the preventable loss of lives and destruction of property; Nigeria as a regional leader is so strategic to Africa that its politics and governance should represent a positive example. A significant number of the elections on the continent have been marred by varying degrees of violence, resulting in the preventable loss of lives and destruction of property.” The communique recommended that politicians in Africa should use politics as a platform for building peace and strengthening cooperation across cultures, religions, ethnicity and political alignment. It was also recomended that democracy should be strengthened to focus more on the delivery of good governance and popular participation. The conference specifically urged stakeholders in the 2019 general elections in Nigeria to play by the rules and avoid utterances and actions that may precipitate violence. It cautioned the politicians against hate speech,adding that labelling opponents as liars, looters, enemies and other such unsubstantiated name-calling could trigger violent reactions. “The government of Nigeria should ensure the security of lives and property as enshrined in the nation’s 1999 Constitution before, during and after the 2019 general elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Security Agencies should be professional and non-partisan in the performance of their duties. Efforts should be made by national governments, civil society organisations and community leaders in Africa to prevent post election crises. Regional and sub-regional organisations like the African Union and ECOWAS should encourage and promote good governance by establishing a reward system for exemplary leaders in Africa,” said the communique. Outside the peace and development advocacy of the Foundation, Jonathan is expected to make even more fundamental interventions in the coming days. As a political pilgrim who had passed this route before, he will be in a better position to mentor and guide the current breed political actors on the right way to go in order to arrive safely and perhaps grab the crown. In 2015, Jonathan made two historic interventions in the electoral process in Nigeria that catapulted him to limelight across the world. The first was his famous peace quote: “My ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian,” which helped to douse political tension in the build up to a crucial election in which he was a key player. Secondly, as the incumbent President and presidential candidate of the PDP at that time, his eleventh hour phone call to the presidential candidate of the APC, Gen. Muhamnadu Buhari to concede defeat even before the final results were announced changed the political dynamics and permutations of that election. The impact of these staemanly acts are still with us today as they remain reference points to the man on the saddle and the ruling party in Nigeria at the moment. Ex-President, Kukah, Sawyer sue for peaceful polls Former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, has revealed that Nigeria would have faced a political crisis of unimaginable proportion if ex-President Goodluck Jonathan had not taken a hard and selfless decision to concede defeat in the 2015 general elections. Abubakar , who… In "Politics" Former Head of State, General Abdulsalam Abubakar, yesterday revealed how he and others in the National Peace Committee (NPC) prevailed on former President Goodluck Jonathan not to arrest and jail some prominent Nigerians including President Muhammadu Buhari and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar for treasonable felony in 2015. Abubakar, who… In "News" Former American President, Barack Obama has been mentioned in the high-wired political intrigues and international conspiracies that  culminated in the ousting of  former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan in  the 2015 presidential election. A new book on the historic election titled: "Facts Versus Fiction" written by a former aide of ex-President… In "News"