With the emergence of two blocks of Generals for and against the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari, BIYI ADEGOROYE, looks at the battle and how far they can go    More than anything else, the presidential election is going to be a crucible, a battle of the capability, capacity and influence of the Generals against, ironically, one of their own. While they were instrumental to President Muhammadu Buhari’s election in 2015, this time around, the music has changed as many of them are resolute that he does not deserve re-election.
Consistently, the quarlet of former president Olusegun Obasanjo, former military President, Ibrahim Babangida, former Defence Minister, Lt. General Theophilus Danjuma and one time Commander of the Nigeria Army Training and Command, (TRADOC), Brig-General Ishola Williams have not failed to express their indignation about the governance pattern of President Buhari and are moving for change of the course and direction of what they described as lackluster performance and misgovernment.
In their argument, the current leadership has failed and Nigeria must neither adopt spirit of cowardice nor timidity or even impotence but must be sustained by courage, determination and commitment to say and do everything through the ballot to ensure they achieve their goal.
For instance, Chief Obasanjo has written not a few open letters in the past three years asking President Buhari not to seek a second term in this election, because in his words, “Buhari is nepotic, clannish and has little understanding of the dynamics of Nigeria’s internal politics;” hence “he should not over-push his luck nor over-tax the patience and tolerance of Nigerians for him.
In his letter sent last year, Obasanjo said: “To ask Nigerians to give more will be unrealistic and will only sentence Nigeria to a prison term of four years if not destroy it beyond the possibility of an early recovery and substantial growth. Albert Einstein made it clear to us that doing the same thing and expecting a different result is the height of folly.”
Giving his reasons, he said: “Already, Nigerians are committing suicide for the unbearable socio-economic situation they find themselves in. And yet Nigerians love life. We must not continue to reinforce failure and hope that all will be well. It is self-deceit and self-defeat and another aspect of folly.”
Since then, Obasanjo has called for a Third Force to fight the two political parties, and later, when it seemed that was a flash in the pan, he endorsed the candidacy of his former deputy, Vice President, Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP). But that did not come without some bashing from the Buhari Campaign Organisation. Babangida’s call for rebirth
Like former President Obasanjo, Babangida, who was initially committed to the government of President Buhari, belongs to the league of Generals who believes he does not deserve a second term.
More than a year ago, Babangida, who overthrew Buhari in 1985 and ruled till 1993, said in a statement titled: Towards a National Rebirth: In the fullness of our present realities, we need to cooperate with President Buhari to complete his term of office till May 29, 2019 and collectively prepare the way for new generation of leaders to assume the mantle of leadership of the country.”
Though he did not deny President Buhari’s inalienable right to vote and be voted for, but noted that as a “stakeholder, former president, concerned Nigerian and a patriot who desires to see new paradigms in our shared commitment to get this country running…there comes a time in the life of a nation, when personal ambition should not override national interest. This is the time for us to reinvent the will and tap into the resourcefulness of the younger generation, stimulate their entrepreneurial initiatives and provoke a conduce environment to grow national economy both at the micro and macro levels.”
To Babangiba, this election presents a unique opportunity “to reinvent the will and provoke fresh leadership that would immediately begin the process of healing the wounds in the land and ensuring that the wishes and aspirations of the people are realised in building and sustaining national cohesion and consensus.”
Babangida’s angst against Buhari has its root in the incessant clashes and killings across the country, especially his perplexity by the “gory themes from Southern Kaduna to Taraba, Benue Rivers, from Edo to Zamfara states, it has been a theatre of blood with cake of crimson. In Dansadau in Zamfara state recently, North-West of Nigeria, over 200 souls were wasted for no justifiable reason. The pogrom in Benue State has left me wondering if truly this is the same country some of us fought to keep together.” Danjuma’s fury
The case is not any different with the former Minister for Defence, General Danjuma (rtd), who, enraged by the carnage in the North-East, especially in Taraba his homestead passed a vote of no confidence in Buhari’s government.
During one of those massacres, the General called on Nigerians to defend themselves against ethnic cleansing, which, according to him, had the complicity of some Generals, who are profiteers from the protracted war on Boko Haram. Danjuma’s call on Nigerians to “rise and defend themselves against the killers…You must rise to protect yourselves from these people. If you depend on the Armed Forces to protect you, you will all die. This ethnic creasing must stop in Taraba, and it must stop in Nigeria.”
The former Defence Minister said these killers have been protected by the military, “they cover them and you must be watchful to guide and protect yourselves because you have no other place to go. The ethnic cleansing must stop now otherwise Somalia will be a child play. I ask all of you to be on your alert and defend your country, defend your state.” Since then, he position is not hidden. Marwa, others
On the other hand, some top retired military officers penultimate Monday had also declared their support for President Buhari’s re-election bid. Among them are 13 Major-Generals, eight Air Vice-Marshals, two Rear Admirals, 12 Brigadier Generals, nine Air Commodores, eight Commodores, and 17 former military administrators.
A former Military Administrator of Lagos State, Brig.-Gen Buba Marwa (rtd), who led the retired officers to the State House, Abuja, where they endorsed the President’s ambition, doubles as the Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee on Elimination of Drug Abuse in Nigeria. A former Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Jubril Ayinla, was among the ex-officers backing the President.
They saw in Buhari that competence and the need for his to sustain current developmental efforts. Like Lt. General Alani Akinrinade, (rtd), they kicked against the endorsement of Atiku by former President Obasanjo and his group.
But no sooner had they announced their endorsement than a onetime Head of the Nigerian Army Training and Doctrine Command, Brig-General Alaba William (rtd) dissociated himself from the action, stating the retired officers, including Marwa were on their own. The battle
But one question in the minds of many Nigerians is the motive behind the current actions of the retired Generals. Are they driven by national or primordial interest to enable them hold on to governance in perpetuity? It is also curious that these Generals, in violation of espirit de corps, are supporting a civilian against one of their own, albeit some of them have predicated their action on national interest in view of enumerated poor governance and nepotism.
Of equal importance is the Generals’ electoral value. What is their followership in their respective states? For instance, how many of them can deliver their respective states to their candidate? Can Marwa, for instance, defeat Atiku in Adamawa State?
Granted, Danjuma is a heavy weight in Taraba, but what level of influence does he have over politicians in the North-East who will mobilise the electorate? Also, can Ibrahim Babangida win Niger State or the entire Middle Belt for Atiku? General Aliu Guzau (rtd) reportedly pulled some strings that culminated in the emergence of Atiku as presidential candidate of the PDP, but it remains to be seen how he goes beyond that across the states in these election.
Knowing that Buhari’s emergence has also led to the production of a new power blocks led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Moamar Daura and Abba Kyari who have tentacles in many parts of the country and will work for Buhari to remain in power, how ready are the Generals to contend with this? How will the Generals persuade the current pauperised Nigerians, who are almost ready to sell their votes of a pot of stew as was since in the massive vote buying of the state elections?
Undeniable though is the fact that one of the contributions of the military to development is strategic planning, and political observers are waiting to see the tactics these Generals are adopting to sink home their endorsements and garner votes for their candidates. A battle of the generals looms as former President Olusegun Obasanjo appears to have tactically withdrawn his support for the Muhammadu Buhari administration, FELIX NWANERI reports   Former President Olusegun Obasanjo is one man who understands the country’s politics. While his detractors may conjure any conceivable hubris to denigrate him,… In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari's declaration to seek re-election in 2019 pitches him against former Nigerian leaders who advised him to quit at the end of his tenure or face disgrace. Will he be able to survive their threat? Asks ONYEKACHI EZE     It is no longer in the realm of… In "Politics" •Obasanjo’s group not an option- PDP Vice Chair •Buhari should forget 2019 -NANS •Ezekwesile’s, MFC join the fray •They are vehicles to nowhere -APC •Herdsmen attack, nepotism ‘ll work against Buhari   As the battle for the 2019 elections gathers momentum, over 30 political parties and coalitions of association have… In "News"