Six children have reportedly been kidnapped as suspected ritual killers are now on the prowl in Jahi, a rural community in the Abuja Municipal Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory.  Some residents of the village alleged that the six children were kidnapped on the streets by unknown persons under different circumstances. However, the number has remained contentious as the local chief, Etsu of Jahi, Alhaji Adamu Dogo, said that it was only three children that had been reportedly kidnapped in the community.  Dogo, who expressed sadness over the situation, said that official information available to his palace showed that one of the victims was from a Yoruba family resident in the village, while the other two were children of same parents from the Gbagyi ethnic group.  He lamented that these children had remained missing for weeks without any trace and called on relevant authorities to come to the rescue of the village. When Inside Abuja visited the Chief’s Palace, what seemed like an emergency meeting of the community elders was in progress.  Although, the agenda of the meeting was not made public, an inside source revealed that the meeting was convened to review the security situation and plot the strategy to unravel the mysterious disappearance of these children.  A middle aged man, Yakubu Sule, who spoke to Inside Abuja, stated that officers of the Nigeria Police posted to man the police post in the community were already on the alert but no arrests had been made.  A woman, who resides in the community, Lucy Joseph, said the kidnappers were taking advantage of the community’s porous environment to operate. She stated that the kidnappers come almost every week to operate in the community and that each time they struck, two children would mysteriously disappear without any trace.  “Just last Friday, the kidnappers came again to this place and two children were kidnapped. They have kidnapped two children from the same parents two weeks ago. From what I have heard, about six children had been kidnapped. “The most painful of it all was that two of the children are from the same parents.  Up to now, none of these victims had been traced and their parents are living in agony”, she said Another resident, Stephen Makus, corroborated the report that up to six children had been taken away by the kidnappers. He also confirmed that the incidenct was becoming a reoccurring decimal every fortnight. Makus blamed the successful operations of the kidnappers on the parents who do not take adequate care of their children in the community.  “Honestly, I blame parents who allow their children to be roaming about in a community that is so porous. I have heard of this kidnapping that happens almost every week. They said that six children had been kidnapped “, he said. Inside Abuja called the FCT Police Spokesman, Mamza Anjuguri, to confirm the incidents, but he said he was in a meeting. He never called back nor sent any message to confirm or deny the report.