An Abuja High Court yesterday admitted the sacked Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir Lawal, and two others to bail in the sum of N50million each with one surety.
According to the trial judge, Justice Jude Okeke, the sureties must possess titles to lands within the jurisdiction of the court and be residents of Abuja.  The court added that the sureties must also show evidence of tax payment for the past three years.
The Federal Government had, yesterday, arraigned Lawal and three others on a 10 count criminal charge bothering on diversion of public funds.  Others arraigned alongside Lawal were Hamidu David Lawal, a director of Rholavision Engineering Limited; an employee of the company, Sulaiman Abubakar and the Managing Director of Josmon Technologies Limited, Apeh John Monday.
When the charge was read to them on Tuesday, they all pleaded not guilty.  After the plea of not guilty, Prosecution Counsel, Mohammed Abubakar, asked the court for a date for commencement of trial. Counsel to Lawal, Chief Akin Olujinmi, SAN, had informed the count that he filed a bail application on behalf of the first defendant, adding that the prosecution refused to be served the application.
He, however, moved an oral application for bail, submitting that he was encouraged by the decision of the Court of Appeal in the case of Abiola vs FRN.  While noting that bail was at the discretion of the court in line with Sections 158 and 165 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA), 2015, he urged the court to grant Lawal bail in self-recognition.  According to him, the first defendant had served Nigeria meritorious at a high level as SGF, an office he held for over two years before the Senate raised the issue that brought him before the court.
He added that EFCC invited Lawal and detained him on April 11, 2018 and granted him administrative bail on April 13, 2018.  He also informed the Court that while on administrative bail, the former SGF had cause to travel on health ground and informed EFCC about it, adding that, “EFCC released his international passport to travel. He returned the passport to them on his return to the country.
“If he had wanted to escape, he could have done so while he travelled out of the country.”  Olujinmi submitted that Lawal did not have any reason to interfere with EFCC’s investigation as the commission had completed its investigation into the matter.  Counsel for the second defendant, Sunday Ameh, SAN, urged the court to exercise its discretion in granting Hamidu Lawal bail, saying that he was admitted on an administrative bail by EFCC since November 2018.
According to Ameh, his client, who he said was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1984, neither jumped bail nor violated any of the conditions attached.
He submitted that the second defendant had demonstrated his availability to face trial all through the period of his administrative bail.  On their part, counsel for Abubakar and Monday, Napoleon Edenala and Ocholi Okutekpa, respectively urged the court to grant the third and fourth defendants bail pending the final determination of the case.
They argued that their respective clients had been granted administrative bail by the anti-corruption commission and had never jumped bail.  Responding, the prosecution counsel, Abubakar, stated that he was not aware that any EFCC officials refused to accept service of the first defendant’s bail application.
He stated further that there was no affidavit before the court, showing that the application was refused to be accepted, adding that he needed time to respond to the oral application by Olujinmi.
According to him, the Abiola vs FRN relied upon by the defence counsel to make the oral application was not applicable in the instant case.  Abubakar submitted that in line with Section 162 of ACJA, an applicant for bail needed to present before the court sufficient materials to enable the court to exercise its discretion.
The prosecution counsel added that such materials must be supported by evidence.  He also submitted that the fact that EFCC granted the defendants administrative bail was not enough for the court to grant the bail as the circumstance had changed as they were now charged to court.
In count 1, the defendants were alleged to have, on or about March 6, 2016, conspired to commit an offence to wit: fraudulent acquisition of property and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 26(1)(c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 and punishable under Section 12 of the same Act.