 Justice Raliat Adebiyi of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos yesterday fixed March 3 for judgement in the case of a housewife, Stella Gilbert, who allegedly stabbed her neighbour, Stella Godwin, to death with a kitchen knife.
Gilbert was arraigned on July 15, 2015, on a charge of murder to which she pleaded not guilty. The court fixed judgement after hearing the adoption of final written addresses of both the prosecution counsel, Mrs. O. A. Olugasa, and the defence counsel, Mr. I. E. Isu.
Gilbert allegedly stabbed Godwin to death on June 22, 2013, at No. 59, Ojora Street, Ajegunle, Lagos, while fighting over the kitchen table left behind by a neighbour who parked out of their residence.
However, the court had admitted in evidence the kitchen knife allegedly used by Gilbert to kill Godwin. Also admitted in evidence were the autopsy report and a kitchen table which the two housewives fought over. The state prosecutor tendered the items and autopsy report as evidences through a witness, Fatai Popoola, who was the police officer in charge of the case.
The investigative police officer had earlier told the court that the defendant stabbed the deceased with a kitchen knife on the chest and arm, leading to the latter’s death.
The IPO told the court that the case was transferred to him alongside the exhibits (wooden bench and knife).
Popoola said he prepared a coroner form for an autopsy to be carried out on the deceased. According to him, the form was given to a pathologist to conduct and prepare an autopsy report, which was tendered and admitted as exhibit.
He said: “The deceased and the accused were neighbours, as well as namesakes. On the day of the incident, a visitor came to see the deceased’s husband and she wanted a chair for their visitor.
“She went to fetch a wooden bench which was kept in the custody of the accused by another neighbour for her guest to sit on. “The accused was upset with the deceased for taking the bench without her consent and in the ensuing anger, threw some hot water from her kettle on the deceased, her husband and their guest.” Justice Raliatu Adebiyi of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos has admitted in evidence a kitchen knife allegedly used by a housewife, Mrs Stella Gilbert for the murder of a co-tenant and friend, Mrs Stella Godwin. Besides, the court also admitted in evidence other items that were allegedly linked to the… In "News" Justice Raliatu Adebiyi of an Ikeja High Court will on May 3 deliver judgment in a case of alleged murder of a housewife, Mrs Stella Godwin, by another housewife who is her namesake and neighbour. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Adebiyi fixed the date on Wednesday after… In "Metro and Crime" A 24-year-old woman, Blessing Edet accused of stabbing her boyfriend, Edet Ebong to death over an engagement ring was yesterday ordered by an Ikeja Special Offences Court, Lagos to open her defence. Edet allegedly killed her 33-year-old boyfriend on August 18, 2015, at his apartment, at No. 1 Falana Street,… In "Metro and Crime"