Ekweremadu: You’re a non-starter just seeking relevance   The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu West senatorial district in the February 16 election, Barr. (Mrs.) Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, has vowed to stop the Deputy Senate President, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, who is also senatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from returning to the National As   sembly.  But the Deputy Senate President, who is contesting for the fifth time, has described Ibekaku-Nwagwu   as “a non-starter” in politics who is just seeking political relevance. Enugu West Senatorial District comprises Awgu, Aninri, Oji River, Udi and Ezeagu local government areas.  Ibekaku-Nwagwu told New Telegraph in Enugu yesterday that she was more than 100 per cent optimistic of winning the election. She stressed that not only had Ekweremadu overstayed his welcome at the Senate, but had breached an agreement he had in 2015 with the people of Agbaja cultural zone, comprising Udi/Ezeagu local government areas that 2015 would be his last outing at the red chamber.  On her chances of defeating Ekweremadu, given that Enugu State has been known to be a PDP state, she said: “I’m not only optimistic, I believe that I have 100 per cent chances of winning and when you look at the scenario and if you interview people within the zone, they will tell you that Ekweremadu has overstayed his welcome in Enugu West.  “They will also tell you that Udi Local Government is pushing against Ekweremadu because they have never gone to Senate and there was an agreement in 2015 that that was his last term in the Senate. “He is working against the tide. Udi has more than 130,000 votes while Ezeagu has more than 100,000 votes. That gives us more than half of the votes we need to win. And if you go to Oji River (LGA); we have more than 70 per cent votes coming out from there.” Ibekaku-Nwagwu stated that with the reforms in the electoral system, where there is hope of a free and fair election in the February 16 polls, she was sure to defeat Ekweremadu.  “So people are looking for something to happen differently from what has happened in the past 20 years of PDP-led government in Enugu State. “Let me respond first to the observation that there is no vacancy in Enugu West. Well, maybe for him (the caller), but certainly not for 99 per cent of Enugu West people. So, he is just one out of a hundred who has that view, so we wouldn’t waste our time discussing it. “You could say that in 2015, and that will fly. Today, in 2019, are you aware that most of what I’ll call the bigwigs in PDP have moved to APC? Are you aware that the former governor of Enugu State, Sullivan Chime, is now in APC? Are you aware that the former Senate President, who used to be in PDP is now in APC? Are you also aware that almost close to one million PDP members have moved to APC? And that is the reality today.  The reality is that it’s not going to be the same thing that was played in 2015.” She promised to attract development to the constituency using her connection at the federal level, in the areas of education, employment, agro-economy, health and roads. But the Deputy Senate President has dismissed any threat from the Presidential aide. Ekweremadu, who spoke through his Special Adviser on Media, Mr. Uche Anichukwu, said that even stakeholders and traditional rulers from Ibekaku’s community visited the Enugu residence of the Deputy Senate President in December to endorse his candidature.  He said: “We won’t join issues with Ibekaku. She is a non-starter seeking relevance. She only wants to make news by mentioning Ekweremdu’s name. “Let’s even go to her hometown – Egede. The potable water she uses in her father’s house was provided by Ekweremadu.  The Umulumgbe-Affa-Ikedimkpa- Amaozalla-Egede-Awhum federal road that passes through her hometown was attracted by Ekweremadu. The Umuovu-Anekeze- Umuanum-Okwum-Egede erosion control in her area was attracted by Ekweremadu. “So, you now know why the two autonomous communities of Egede, their traditional rulers, cabinet chiefs, town union leaderships, women, and the youth stormed Ekweremadu’s Enugu residence last December to overwhelmingly endorse him. They said their daughter was on her own because they didn’t send her. Egede was agog for Ekweremadu during his campaign at Egede/Umuoka Ward, where every who-is-who in that Ward roundly endorsed the senator.  “Last week, we toured Ezeagu. The solidarity was overwhelming. Not only did all the Igwes (royal fathers) endorse him at the palace of HRH Igwe Augustine Otiji, we received gifts of cows numbering over 20 given by communities and individuals in appreciation of his quality representation.  “All the stakeholders in Udi that she spoke about also endorsed the senator. “Don’t also forget that it was this same people she is making false claims on their behalf that bought PDP’s nomination form, took it to Ekweremdu, who was even considering going back to the classroom and running his Foundation, insisting that he must go back to the Senate. “So, we won’t join issues with her because she doesn’t even know Enugu West in the first place.  The people will speak on February 16. She won’t win a ward, not even in her hometown Egede. Not one. Our works speak for us and the people’s support is overwhelming