Versatile singer, Yakubu Jubril, popularly called YQ, needs no introduction in the Nigeria music scene. The Kogi State star has collaborated with some of Nigeria’s biggest music stars. In 2004, he decided to pursue a solo career and was quickly snapped up by a record label. YQ finally introduced himself to the world with his debut album titled, ‘I am YQ’. In this exclusive interview with ABIOLA ALABA PETERS, he speaks on his career and how he survived depression  How did you start your music career?  I stumbled into music because I used to do it for fun. I was a footballer and when I stopped playing, I started writing songs; although I went through a lot to pay for studio fees. I did some menial jobs on the street including photography, barbing and more. I worked with a telecommunications company in 2007 and then resigned in 2008 because of my musical career.  What’s your relationship with Jaywon, you two are very close?  Yes, we are like brothers. Only God knows why we are this close; it happened naturally. I’m very close to him. He’s like a brother to me. We have chemistry and understand ourselves.  Tell us about your growing up days.  Growing up was good and bad, I’m from a disciplined family. But I left home at 16 to pursue my hustling. Music started with fun and passion. I and my childhood friends will record in cassettes and hear ourselves and laugh; we later formed a group called Q-Krest.  Years after the death of your late friend and brother Dagrin, what do you think the industry and you still miss about him today? All I have to say is Dagrin lives on. Legends don’t die, they live forever. It still feels like yesterday but the good thing is, he has been remembered everywhere and most youths still celebrate Dagrin, God says we should give thanks always.  How will you describe his absence from the music scene?  One of his major dreams was for indigenous rappers and hip-hop acts to have a permanent ground in the Nigerian music industry, Africa and beyond. He fulfilled this to a great extent; which is evident in the emergence of great talents, who believe in indigenous rap music and are doing very well for themselves at the moment; as well as millions of fans who have shown great appreciation for the genre in recent times. Akogun helped indigenous rap gain independence. He’s the saviour.  What does the term ‘street or ‘ghetto’ mean to you? Ghetto is a place or a school that determines a true survivor. If you can graduate or make it out of the ghetto despite all the struggles, then consider yourself a winner.  You recently shared that you suffered depression, how did you overcome it?  Depression and suicide, more than meets the eye. As a survivor, I know what it feels like but I can only explain how I conquered those demons. It’s through prayer; stubborn and relentless prayer is the number one and major weapon. Try get close to one or two people that can help you with motivational words and pray with you often. Oppression, competition, humiliation, bullying, never allow people do those things to you. Find people that can make you smile without judging you by your mistakes and situations and make those people your family.  Lastly, search your heart. Do you have faith? Are you a kind person inside? Do you see other people doing well or better than you and you always feel you are supposed to be in their position instead of thanking God for your own life and praying for Him to lead you on according to His own time?  As a reminder; have you prayed and thanked God for breathe today? Do you believe his mercies are new every morning? Can you wait patiently while you continue hustling and hoping for that breakthrough? If yes then, cheers!  What is your favourite food? I’m a foodie! I like swallow a lot.  What is your take on some Nigerian awards and some of your colleagues that couldn’t keep their cool when they don’t win but take to their social media to express their dissatisfaction?  We’re all humans and we have different ways of reacting to things. Some feel they’ve worked very hard to deserve the award, while some feel they were robbed. I won’t blame the people who do that, and I wouldn’t blame the organisers as well. Sometimes, I even get angry too but it’s all good. As long as you’re nominated, it means you’re recognised.  Can you tell us a bit about your love life and marriage plans?  When it’s time for me to marry, you will hear everything.  What are those things your colleagues are so fond of that you are not down with as far as the music industry is concerned?  I like to mind my own business and respect other people’s own.  What’s the latest from YQ…album, videos and songs?  I’m working on a couple of projects.  What are your words to your fans?  I want to say may God reward you all for your love and support since day one. I can’t thank you all enough.