Premier League continues to take a back-seat today with the Fifth Round of the FA Cup reigning supreme with Chelsea’s Sarri and United’s Solskjaer hoping to bounce back in the standout fixture of the round, writes TUNDE SULAIMAN  Fifth round action in the world’s oldest knock out competition, the FA Cup continues over the next 48 hours with the stand out tie of the weekend taking place tomorrow between Chelsea and Manchester United Although the Fifth Round actually kicked off on Friday, for obvious reasons when the draw was made last month, it was the game taking place at Stamford Bridge that immediately caught the attention of the football world. When the former Arsenal and England pair, Ian Wright and Alex Scott were charged with pulling out the balls for the event on Monday January 28, neither could imagine the mouth-watering fixture they would end up making at the end of the exercise.  Defending champions Chelsea will host 12-time winners Manchester United in a repeat of last year’s final, which the team from the British capital won 1-0 courtesy of a 22nd minute Eden Hazard goal. However, while for the football neutrals it is a match made in heaven, it is not so for United’s caretaker boss, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and his Chelsea opposite number, Maurizio Sarri, who both suffered humiliating reality checks in recent high profile games – Ole’s side went down 2-0 to PSG in the Champions League on Tuesday night, while Sarri watched helpless as Manchester City dismembered his Blues in the Premier League last Sunday at The Etihad!  But while it is understandable that Ole will not come under so much fire for the midweek “soccer lesson” taught him by the Parisian outfit considering that he is still relatively young in club management (besides he only even joined United mid- December); the same cannot be said of the 60-year-old Italian, who has been coaching since 1990. For obvious reasons the beleaguered Chelsea boss will be under more scrutiny tomorrow knowing that he has a lot riding on the outcome of the game beyond extending his club’s grip on the trophy. Sarri and his club captain, captain Cesar Azpilicueta were forced to apologise last Sunday after their side’s humiliating 6-0 defeat at Manchester City, which was the heaviest suffered by the Blues for 28 years. The Blues have now slipped to sixth in the Premier League table, below Arsenal on goal difference. “In the last three matches away we’ve played very badly so we need to say sorry,” said the 69-year-old Italian.  “It is one of the worst nights in my career,” added defender Azpilicueta, 29. “It is difficult to explain what happened. “We are conceding a lot of goals and we cannot accept that. All I can do is apologise to the fans because it is not acceptable.” Sarri, who left Serie A side Napoli to take charge at Stamford Bridge last summer, was asked if he was concerned about his own future. “I don’t know,” he said.  “You are asking me [about] something which is not my job. I am worried about our performances, not about the club. You’d have to ask the club. “I want to study, I want to understand. I do my best and the players do their best. For the moment I have to say only sorry.” After losing 2-0 to City in the Community Shield, Chelsea went unbeaten in 18 games.  They have since lost seven out of 21 in all competitions, with their latest being their third straight away game, conceding 12 goals without reply. “I’m surprised because at the beginning of the season we played better away than at home so I don’t know what has happened but at the moment we are in trouble,” Sarri added.  “In the last three or four matches we were without a reaction from the first difficulty so we need to understand. “It is difficult to describe our performance; it’s difficult also to understand. We started well but after four minutes we conceded a goal in a stupid way. “We had only to stay in the match but the reaction was not good. In the 20 minutes after the first goal we made a lot of mistakes against the wrong opponents because they played some fantastic football.” And in the build up to Chelsea’s Thursday night Europa League clash with Malmo FF of Sweden that things have been difficult with the Stamford Bridge outfit since The Etihad mauling. “It’s not easy to play after losing 6-0,” said Sarri.  “But we have to play and we have to play well. We want to win.  We want to react immediately.” Incidentally, Sarri almost provided the now departed Jose Mourinho, what would have been his greatest triumph this season, when on October 20 the Portuguese was only seconds away from pulling off a stunning 2-1 victory over Chelsea at Stamford Bridge which would have gone a long way in lifting the gloom at Old Trafford, when Ross Barkley’s 96th-minute equaliser denied him that glory.  And until last weekend’s setback at The Etihad, Sarri had ensured the minimum requirement for remaining in charge by keeping the Blues in the crucial Champions League spots. However, the City defeat coupled with United’s win at Fulham meant that that they dropped to fifth. This then became sixth when in the later game Arsenal beat Huddersfield 2-1 to move above their London rivals on goals’ difference.  The hierarchy at Chelsea is not known for being very tolerant when things appear not to be going the way they want it. They fired Jose Mourinho despite the fact that he ended their 50-year wait for a league title with back-to-back honours and also dispensed with the services of Carlo Ancelotti and Antonio Conte, who also brought league glory to Stamford Bridge. Repeatedly asked by the English media in the wake of his side’s poor recent form, the former Napoli manager has always maintained a dignified position insisting that he was not thinking about his future but only on getting the best out of his misfiring Chelsea.  “Not this week, not in the last three weeks,” he said whether had spoken to Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich following the City defeat. “I would like to speak to someone of the club, not necessarily the owner. I speak to [director] Marina Granovskaia and for me that is enough.” However, going by the antecedent of his owner, Roman Abramovich, if things do not soon improve on the pitch then the Italian will soon be out of job. In fact a midweek report in one of the British papers (The Times) indicated that the Chelsea board will take action once they believe their minimal requirement of making the Champions League slot under threat by poor performances on the pitch.  However, Sarri may have deeper underlining problems if the words of one of his main players are anything to go by. Pedro, who was part of the side that was thrashed at The Etihad, has gone on record as saying the players are finding it difficult to imbibe the Italian’s preferred style of play. While affirming they are 100 per cent behind the under-fire boss, the Spanish international, also confessed that they are struggling to put Sarri’s high-intensity tactics into practice. “All the team follows the idea of Maurizio: press really high, stay compact, and to create chances. With good possession, a lot of the ball. We can do this as a team,” the Spaniard told reporters on Wednesday.  “But sometimes it’s so difficult to play in this way. It depends upon the opponents. City played very well, so it was so difficult to press, to create between the lines and to defend. “But it’s Maurizio’s idea, and I prefer to press high when we recover the ball to create chances, not to wait for 90 minutes to recover the ball and run 60 metres to score the goal,” he said.  Pedro, however, went on to reject the notion that Chelsea suffer from a toxic dressing room, despite the club going through three managers in as many years. Although Ole does not have such issues, however, all eyes will now be on him to see how well he is able to manage the first defeat of his short United managerial career and get a reaction from his tomorrow. Speaking after the Champions League loss, the Norwegian was man enough to admit that he had suffered a “reality check” at the hands of the French champions.  “Today is a reality check for us. Mountains are there to be climbed; you can’t lay down and say this is over. We will go there, play our game and improve from today. “They had the momentum after the first goal and controlled the game. You could see we hadn’t played at this level for a while and we will have to learn.  It was an experience that can go either way, it’s not going to be a season-defining one, it’s one we have to learn from.” Although overall Thomas Tuchel’s side played the more compact and purposeful football, Solskjær must take some of the blame for failing to tweak his team when injuries to Jesse Lingard and Anthony Martial, forced them off either side of the break, by opting to replace Lingard with Alexis Sánchez when he could have moved Marcus Rashford to the flank and brought on Romelu Lukaku.  This would have enabled him still keep his fast players on the pitch, while the burly Belgian international would have added another dimension to United’s attack with his physicality which would have posed problems for PSG’s central defenders, especially should the Red Devils opt for route one football.  Instead, Sánchez, who along to a lesser extent Lukaku has been one of the few players to have raised his game since Ole’s arrival, was totally anonymous. When expectedly asked about the performance of the former Arsenal man, Solskjær was curt is his answer saying: “He needs to find himself, because we know there’s a quality player there.”  Clearly aware that the FA Cup tie has gained more importance in view of the Champions League disappointment, Solskjær said Manchester United cannot afford to feel sorry for themselves after the club’s heaviest defeat at home in European competition, saying: “Not to be sorry for themselves. Anyone who feels sorry for themselves probably won’t play against Chelsea.”  Luckily for the 45-year-old former Red Devils forward, Monday’s foes are definitely not in the same class as Tuesday night’s visitors to Old Trafford and having already gone to Spurs and Arsenal to etch out wins should be pleasantly confident of his chances at Stamford Bridge. Paul Pogba, who was show a red card on Tuesday, is still available for domestic action and will once again be relied on to help the Red Devils raise their game and propel them to a place in the quarter-finals.  With so much riding on the outcome of the game for both the managers and players, neutrals should be in for an evening of enthralling football while the fans of both clubs will be gnawing at their nails for the duration of the encounter in which some of the best players available will be on display. And things do not get any easier for the managers with both of them facing very tough fixtures in the next few days. Next Sunday Chelsea faces Manchester City in the Carabao Cup final at Wembley and United at home to their North West rivals, Liverpool also on the same day.  At the end of this sequence, fans will know if Ole will possibly move closer to becoming the full time Old Trafford manager, while Sarri’s fate as Chelsea boss will also become clearer. In games taking place this afternoon, Championship side, Bristol City is home to Wolves of the Premier League; League One’s Doncaster Rovers faces Premiership side, Crystal Palace and in the last game of the day, Swansea City hosts Brentford in an all Championship clash.