As the most populous nation in Africa, Nigeria, elects a president this weekend, it is not only choosing a head of state, but a head of government and a commander-in-chief of the largest democracy in the continent, FELIX NWANERI reports   It is expected to be a nail-biting finish in this weekend’s presidential election as about 84 million Nigerians vote to elect the country’s 16th head of state. An unprecedented 73 candidates are contesting the election. According to a list published by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), they are Muhammadu Buhari (All Progressives Congress – APC), Atiku Abubakar (Peoples Democratic Party – PDP), Moses Shipi (All Blending Party – ABP), Samuel Eke (Green Party of Nigeria – GPN), Donald Duke (Social Democratic Party – SDP), Mark Emmanuel (United Patriots – UP), Hamisu Santuraki (Mega Party of Nigeria – MPN), Moses Ajibiowu (National Unity Party – NUP), Nwokeafor Ikechukwu (Advanced Congress of Democrats – ACD), Aliyu Ibrahim (African People Alliance – APA) and Kingsley Moghalu (Young Progressives Party – YPP). Others are Ilongwo John (Democratic Peoples Party – DPP), Obiageli Ezekwesili (Allied Congress Party of Nigeria – ACPN), Yunusa Tanko (Nationalist Congress Party – NCP) Ike keke (New Nigeria Peoples Party – NNPP), Chris Okotie (Fresh Democratic Party – FDP), Yusufu Obaje (Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP), Ize-Iyamu David (Better Nigeria Peoples Party – BNPP), Samuel Fagbbenr-Byron – KOWA Party) Rabia Hassan) National Action Council – NAC), Nnamdi Madu (Independent Democrats – ID), Tope Fasua (Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party – ANRP), Obinna Ikeagwuonu (African Peoples Party – APP), Isaac Ositelu (Accord Party), Frank Ukonga (Democratic Alternative – DA), Shitu Kabir (Advance Peoples Democratic Party – APDP) and Us-man Muhammed Labour Party – LP). Also on the list are Hamza Al- Mustapha (Peoples Party of Nigeria – PPN), Obadiah Mailafia (African Democratic Congress – ADC), Asukwuo Archibong (Nigeria for Democracy – ND), Chuks Nwachuku (All Grassroots Alliance – AGA), Mercy Adesanya-Davies (Mass Action Joint Alliance – MAJA), Yusuf Yabaji (Action Democratic Party – ADP), Nsehe Nseobong (Restoration Party of Nigeria – RPN), Chukwudi Osuala (Rebuild Nigeria Party – RNP), John Wilson Gbor (All Progressives Grand Alliance – APGA), Usman Ibrahim (National Rescue Movement – NRM), Sunday Eguzolugo (Justice Must Prevail Party JMPP) and Chike Ukaegbu (Advanced Allied Party – AAP). The long list of presidential candidates further have Omoyele Sowore (Africa Action Congress – AAC), Umenwa Godwin (All Grand Alliance Party – AGAP), Isiaka Balogun (United Democratic Party – UDP), Lewis Abah (Change Advocacy Party – CAP), Babatunde Ademola (Nigeria Community Movement Party – NCMP), Ahmed Buhari (Sustainable National Party – SNP), John Dara (Alliance of Social Democrats – ASD), Kriz David (Liberation Movement – LM) and Isah Bashayi (Masses Movement of Nigeria – MMN). There are also Emmanuel Etim (Change Nigeria – CN), Habib Mohammed (United Democratic Party – UDP), Fela Durotoye (Alliance for New Nigeria – ANN), Angela Johnson (Alliance for a United Nigeria – AUN), John Onwubuya (Freedom and Justice Party – FJP), Mashood Shittu (Alternative Party of Nigeria – APN), Yusuf Dantale (Allied Peoples Movement – APM), Ahmed Inuwa (United Party of Nigeria UPN), Geff Ojinika (Coalition For Change – CFC), Robinson Akpua (National Democratic Liberty Party – NDLP) and Victor Okhai (Providence Peoples Congress – PPC). However, one the candidates, Ezekwesili, of ACPN have withdrawn from the race although INEC said it was too late to do so. No doubt, the campaigns have been frosty with a slew of controversies generated by the 73 candidates in the race, but the battle line has been drawn between President Buhari and former Vice President Atiku. Buhari polled a total of 14.8 million during APC’s direct presidential primary held across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to emerge as candidate. There was no one to contest the APC ticket with him, so the ruling party’s convention was merely to coronate him as presidential candidate. Atiku, on the other hand, defeated 11 other aspirants at the PDP’s national convention held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He polled 1,532 votes to beat his closest rival, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, who scored 693 votes while Senate President Bukola Saraki came third with 317 votes. In his acceptance speech the APC’s national convention at the Eagle Square, Abuja, President Buhari assured his supporters and Nigerians that he will not let them down, while reeling out his achievements in the last four years with a promise to serve with more firmness if voted into power for a second term. Buhari specifically thanked other eligible candidates within the party, who deferred their aspirations because of him in the interest of the party’s unity and overall national stability. His words: “Ladies and gentlemen, members of APC. I thank you deeply for your support and confidence in me. I will not let you or the people of Nigeria down. Fellow party members, it is with a deep sense of humility that I stand before you today to accept the nomination of our party, the APC to be its candidate and flag bearer in the 2019 presidential election. “As I stand today before you, there is no honour greater than the confidence given to me by all of you when you affirmed my nomination. I accept this honour as a tribute and mark of confidence to carry the responsibility as we all join hands to continue the good work of the APC government to 2023 and beyond.” Reeling out achievements of his administration, the President said APC is proud of its records from 2015 to date, adding that it had arrested and checked the slide to anarchy on the security and economic fronts. He added that Boko Haram under his government has been decapitated as normalcy had returned to much of North-East and neighbouring North-West states. Atiku, on his part, promised to work towards addressing the numerous challenges facing the country. “We have enumerated a num-ber of challenges facing this country. What we should now do in the next phase of our electioneering campaign is to proffer solutions to these challenges we have identified conflicting our country and its people,” he said. The former vice president further noted that Nigerians are yearning for a change of leadership as they are not happy with the current administration. He promised that his leadership will not fail the citizens, who according to him, “had years of prosperity of unity, of security and of development” when the PDP was at the helm of affairs at the federal level.” “We cannot afford to fail Nigerians at this very historic moment, because Nigerians are yearning for the return of PDP to power because they have now compared the administration of PDP and that of APC. They know that under PDP, they had years of prosperity of unity, of security and of development. This is what will make us completely different as a party from the clueless government of the APC. By the time we start electioneering campaign, I believe Nigerians will yearn for our return till we do so,” he added. The presidential election is not the first time both men would square up against each other. They met in the 2014 presidential primary of the APC. Buhari, a retired Army General and former Head of State, polled 4,430 votes at the party’s convention held in Lagos to beat Atiku; then Kano State governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso; Imo State governor, Rochas Okorocha and the publisher of Leadership Newspapers, Sam Nda-Isaiah to clinch the presidential ticket for the 2015 elections. Interestingly, Kwankwaso polled 974 votes to place second, while Atiku, who many had thought would give Buhari a good run, came third with 954 votes. Okorocha came fourth with 624 votes, while Nda-Isaiah had 10 votes. Buhari went ahead to defeat an incumbent president (Goodluck Jonathan) by 15.4 million to 12.8 million votes. Nigerians will be going to the poll on February 16, to elect a new president from an unprecedented 73 candidates in the race for the country’s number one position, but out of this number, only a handful have, so far, presented themselves to the electorate since the presidential campaign started… In "Politics" President Muhammadu Buhari and other presidential candidates, including Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are to sign Peace Accord to ensure smooth conduct of 2019 general elections. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event, slated for International Conference Centre, Abuja, on… In "News" "You can't beat a child and ask them not to cry." But that's exactly what many Nigerians, particularly members of the victorious All Progressives Congress (APC) in the July 14 Ekiti governorship election, have urged the defeated supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to do: take the loss in… In "Opinions"