At least two people were killed during a clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ojoku in Oyun Local Government Area of Kwara State. The police said they had arrested six people in connection with the incident which occurred on Monday evening among followers of the APC senatorial candidate for Kwara South, Lola Ashiru, and his PDP counterpart, Senator Rafifu Ibrahim. Although both parties exchanged blames over the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ajayi Okasanmi, said in a statement that the attack was against Ashiru who was on a campaign train to Ojoku, the hometown of his arch rival, Ibrahim. Okasanmi said the command was on the trail of other suspects believed to have participated in the crime and reminded political party leaders in the state of the need to adhere to the terms of the peace pact they recently signed with respect to peaceful political campaigns. He said: “The command received with astonishment the reported attack unleashed on Arch. Lola Ashiru, the APC senatorial candidate for Kwara South and his campaign train in Ojoku, Oyun Local Government Area of Kwara State on February 19 in the evening. “Immediately the report was received, the Commissioner of Police, Kwara State, Kayode Egbetokun, dispatched to the scene of the attack at Ojoku a team of policemen, led by the DPO Ilemona and the Squadron Commander 68 PMF, Offa. “The teams successfully brought the situation under control, rescued the candidate unhurt and arrested suspects who were actively involved in the attack. Manhunt for the remaining fleeing suspects had since begun, while discreet investigation of the incident is ongoing.” However, in its own version, the PDP claimed that its candidate was the object of the attack which occurred while Ashiru was coming out of the palace of the traditional ruler of Ojoku.
It was learnt that the exchange of the political slogans, ‘O To Ge’ for APC and ‘O Tun Ya’, for PDP led to the mayhem during which dangerous weapons were used. The PDP listed some of its members allegedly shot during the fracas to include “Dondo, PDP Youth Leader, Agbade, Sheriff, Sai Toyin, Kaba, Akanmu, Tunde Kolokolo and Ibrahim Ojoku.” In a statement, PDP state chairman, Alhaji Kola Shittu, claimed that the incident was part of “the plot by the APC to throw Kwara into chaos and bloodletting so that INEC can shift election and later conduct a staggered election in the state.”
Meanwhile, the state APC Chairman, Hon. Bashir Bolarinwa, has asked the police to arrest Senator Ibrahim, alleging that the legislator was the brain behind the attack.
Bolarinwa, who addressed journalists in Ilorin, said the attackers outnumbered the policemen on the campaign train, forcing the APC candidate to hide for over two hours. He said: “The attackers, who were armed with different weapons, started shooting at the APC members and supporters who accompanied our candidate to the palace. The policemen who accompanied our candidate’s campaign train tried to repel the attackers, but they were massively overwhelmed.” “Our candidate, Architect Lola Ashiru, was quickly taken away from the place and he remained in hiding for over two hours before police reinforcement came to rescue him.” At least two people were killed during a violent clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ojoku, Oyun local government area of Kwara state. The police have also confirmed the arrest of six suspects over the incident which occurred on Monday evening… In "News" …PDP, APC trade blames   Hoodlums suspected to be political thugs yesterday descended on Agbaji, the family home of Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, in Ilorin, Kwara State. At the end of the invasion, which lasted several hours, about 15 people were left with various degrees of injury while about… In "Metro and Crime" Against recent attacks on politicians and at political rallies, BIYI ADEGOROYE in this analysis, explains the need for caution ahead of the elections   ‘‘I appeal to politicians not to set the nation on fire because of their personal ambition at the expense of national interest. People who don’t have… In "Politics"