 Governor Abdulazeez Yari Abubakar of Zamfara State has raised the stakes ahead of the elections warning the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that should candidates of the All Progressive Congress (APC) not be on the ballot; then there will be no elections in the state.
The governor, who spoke during the APC campaign rally at his country home in Talata Mafara yesterday, said it is a costly mistake for INEC to exclude Zamfara APC candidates from contesting the forthcoming general elections. Yari told the crowd that the recent High Court judgement in Gusau, the state capital, showed that primary elections took place in Zamfara and that candidates should be presented to the INEC, yet their names have been excluded from the list released by the election umpire for reasons best known to them. He said that the APC in the state had after the court judgement sent the candidates’ list to INEC, but up till now, none of their names had been shortlisted. Yari revealed that as leader of APC in Zamfara State, he would ensure that his party takes part in the forthcoming general elections, stressing “that there would be no elections in Zamfara should INEC refused to field the APC candidates “. He explained that Zamfara was a strong hold of APC and besides: “All our actions were based on court orders. We are advising INEC to obey the court order and bring out the list of APC candidates in the state.” The governor appealed to the teeming supporters of APC in the state to always remain resolute and support APC candidates in all elections in the state. INEC had excluded APC candidates from the list released of those contesting based on another order issued by an Abuja-based High Court. …excludes APC in Zamfara, Rivers APC, Yari: We’ll be on the ballot   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has cleared 1,066 candidates for the March 2 governorship election. Also, 14,583 candidates have been cleared for the state House of Assembly elections while 105 and 701 candidates will contest… In "News" Even before the first ballot for the 2019 general elections is cast, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has already lost governorship election in Rivers and Imo states. The party’s chances in Ogun and Imo states were also threatened following the refusal of outgoing APC governors in the two states to… In "News" Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State has expressed satisfaction with victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in a Court ruling. The Zamfara State High Court yesterday validated the congress conducted by the Yari-led faction of the APC. It is one of the rulings in the case instituted over the… In "News"