A man, Mr. Emeka Akire, and his wife, Mrs. Rejoice Akire, recently walked into the New Telegraph Newspaper’s head office on ACME Road, Agindigbin, Ikeja, to declare how God used the media house to locate their missing baby.
The Akires were all smiles as they happily made their way into the reception area, seeking the whereabouts of the writer of their story, Mr. Stanley Ihedigbo, and the Editor, Daily, Mr. Ayodele Ojo.
Although the incident occurred in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the New Telegraph, using its network, was able to gather the intricacies of the case and weaved them together.
The eight-month-old baby, Chinwendu, was stolen by the couple’s neighbour, Innocent Ndubusi. The suspect stole the baby exactly seven months after moving into an apartment in the building the couple resides.
Rejoice said that her life was shattered and had appeared to be on hold after she discovered that her baby had been stolen.
The incident occurred at 104, Afam Road, Oyigbo, Rivers State. Rejoice said: “It happened on December 28, 2017. Some minutes after I came out with my child, our neighbour, Ndubusi, came out from his apartment. We greeted each other. It was in the morning. I was washing clothes. He requested to assist me hold my child, while I continued with my washing. I handed the baby to him.
“He asked me if I had N200, so that he would give my daughter N500. I told him that I didn’t. He then said that he wanted to buy call card outside. He left the compound to the next building, where they sell recharge cards. I thought he went to buy recharge cards. That was how he disappeared with my daughter.”
Emeka said: “After endless waiting, we went to Oyigbo Police Station to report the case. The police went to his house with a search warrant. They discovered that he had taken some important items out of the house. He left the door net open and locked the main door. He did this, so that people would think he didn’t go far. Before he stole my daughter, he deliberately sent his family away.”
It took the couple months to locate the stolen baby, thanks to the efforts of the Department of State Services (DSS). Today, the couple, who had been crying for months, is now laughing, while the rescued child responded with a beaming smile.
Emeka said: “We came to thank New Telegraph Newspaper for supporting us through their reportage. The newspaper report assisted us to make some contacts when our daughter was abducted. My wife and I, as well as other family members, appreciate the newspaper. We are grateful to the newspaper and the workers. It was after the newspaper’s report that so many people became aware that our daughter was stolen. Many people started assisting us to look for the child and the man that took her. My wife and I made a vow to come to thank this media organisation after our daughter was found. We are grateful to God. He alone made everything possible.”
Emeka added: “I want to thank every Nigerian who prayed for us, while we were looking for our daughter. Let me also used this opportunity to thank the Rivers State DSS command, under the leadership of Mr. Kingsley for their efforts in finding our daughter.
“DSS operatives went to Onuimo in Imo State to arrest the first person that bought our daughter from Ndubuisi for N450,000. The first buyer went to Rivers State to sell our baby to one Esther for N500,000. And Esther later sold her to a childless couple for N850,000 in Cross River State.”
Rejoice said: “When my daughter was found, the DSS called me. I didn’t believe it at first, because I thought I would never see her again. It was already more than four months that she was stolen. I supported my husband’s suggestion to come to New Telegraph and thank the correspondent and the management for their support. They published our story even with pictures of our stolen daughter.” A man, identified as Innocent Ndubusi, appears to have simply vanished into thin air, after allegedly abducting his neighbours’ eight-month-old baby, identified as Chinwendu. Ndubusi, a father of three, was alleged to have stolen the child seven months, after moving into the building. The baby’s mother, Mrs. Rejoice Ekiri (29),… In "Metro and Crime" …husband kills lady in hotel room, stabs pregnant woman   Police in Ebonyi State have arrested a man, Lucky Godwin, and his wife, Onyinyechi, for allegedly selling their son, Emmanuel, for N200,000. The police also recovered the baby and two other children allegedly stolen and sold by the couple. Godwin… In "Metro and Crime" Detectives attached to Langbasa Police Division, Ajah, Lagos, have arrested a couple, their son and his girlfriend for allegedly breaking into a woman’s house to steal. The suspects - Mr. Uroye Teddy (45), Mrs. Margaret Teddy, Tega Teddy (18) and Teddy’s girlfriend, Karima Edom - were arrested after the alleged… In "Metro and Crime"