The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, failed to walk his talk on his commission’s preparations for the 2019 general elections as it was a faulty start last Saturday, when the polls were expected to commence, Felix Nwaneri reports  Despite persistent assurance by the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, of the commission’s readiness for the 2019 general elections, it was dashed hope last Saturday, when the polls failed to commence as scheduled. Yakubu shocked the nation, when he announced the postponement of the elections few hours it was billed to commence. The general elections were scheduled to commence Saturday, February 16, with the presidential and National Assembly elections, while the governorship and state Houses of Assembly polls are to hold on March 2. But, Yakubu called off the exercise less than few hours it was supposed to commence, rescheduling it for February 23, while the governorship and states Assembly elections will take place on March 9. He blamed logistics problems for the postponement, but did not give details at first. However, at a news conference later in the day, the INEC chairman explained that the commission had been involved in large scale operations in preparations for the polls that “it is therefore not unexpected that such a tremendous national mobilisation of men and materials would encounter operational challenges.” He listed the key challenges to include delays in delivering ballot papers and result sheets, occasioned in part by flight disruptions due to bad weather. He added that there were attempts to sabotage the commission’s preparations, listing fire outbreaks at INEC facilities that destroyed smart card readers, especially that in Anambra State. According to him, if the polls had gone ahead, it would have meant some states starting well ahead of others with the implication of the elections being staggered. His words: “Faced with these challenges, we initially thought that we only required a maximum of 24 hours to resolve the logistics issues involved and complete our deployment for the election. This would mean shifting the elections to commence on Sunday 17th February, 2019. “However, given the restriction of movement during elections, that could affect many voters who worship on Sunday. While the commission considering the following Monday, 19th February, 2019 as an option, our ICT department advised us that it would require five to six days to configure about 180,000 smart card readers earlier programmed to work only on election day, Saturday, 16th February 2019.” While it is not the first time a general elections would be postponed in Nigeria, INEC’s boast, even on Friday (February 15) that it was ready for the polls, questions whether the commission’s boss was unaware of the situation on ground before making the pronouncement. 2011: Polls called off and shifted after voting commenced It would be recalled that last weekend situation played out during the 2011 general elections. The polls were supposed to commence on April 2, with the National Assembly elections, but the then chairman of INEC, Prof Attahiru Jega, who had earlier boasted that the commission was ready for the exercise, had to call it off few hours after voting started. Reports from across the federation then showed that accreditation, which the commission assured would commence by 8.am and end by 12.30pm, could not start until about 11.am thereby making a mess of the simultaneous voting procedure adopted for the elections. The commission consequently shifted the exercise to Monday, April 4, saying it took the difficult but necessary decision to postpone the National Assembly elections to ensure integrity of the process. Jega blamed the failure on inability of one the contractors to supply sensitive materials on schedule. The exercises were again postponed to Saturday, April 16, 2011, for the presidential elections and April 26, 2011 for the state Houses of Assembly and governorship elections. Expectedly, the botched National Assembly elections sparked off chains of reactions across the country with some calling for the immediate resignation of the then INEC boss, but that was not to be. 2015: Polls shifter over security report The story was not different in 2015. The slight difference was that the electoral umpire, equally under Jega, announced the postponement a week ahead of the scheduled time over security reasons, especially the insurgency in the North-East zone. The polls were originally scheduled to on February 14 with the presidential and National Assembly), but was later postponed to March 28 and April 11, for the governorship and states Assembly. Jega, who insisted then that the commission’s decision was not influenced by any group or individual. According to him, the commission decided to take the advice of the security chiefs to adjust the dates of the elections in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act. He particularly pointed out that for the fact the commission was not a security agency that could guarantee protection of personnel, voters during elections and observers, the commission could not likely wave-off the advice by the nation’s security chiefs. Yakubu’s INEC: From inconclusive polls to postponement Many had expected that the electoral commission would have developed a robust anticipatory strategy to militate against sudden postponement of elections. However, despite the 2011 and 2015 experiences; it is yet another faulty start. But some analysts said they were not surprised over the postponement of the 2019 polls given the spate of inconclusive elections, which have characterized the Yakubu-led INEC. The Bauchi State-born professor of Political History and International Studies, who succeeded Jega in October 2015, had his baptism of fire on November 21, with the governorship election in Kogi State, which not only ended on inconclusive note, but was characterised by poor logistics. The same scenario played out during the December 5, 2015 governorship poll in Bayelsa State and subsequent rerun elections in Rivers and Osun States and the FCT council poll. In Kogi, the death of APC’s initial candidate in Kogi State, Abubakar Audu, at a time he was coasting to victory, almost triggered a constitutional crisis as the 1999 Constitution (as amended) did not envisage such situation. The impasse over the incident was however resolved, when INEC directed his party (All Progressives Congress – APC) to nominate another candidate as Audu’s substitution for the supplementary poll in the 91 polling units, where elections were cancelled. The electoral body had declared the election inconclusive midway during collation and announcement of results, following the cancellation of results in the affected polling units due to incidences of violence, ballot boxes snatching, over voting, among others. Late Audu was at the time leading his closest rival and then then incumbent governor, Capt. Idris Wada by 41, 000 votes, whereas the total number of registered voters in the 91 polling units was 49,953, a figure, the commission explained was higher than the margin between the top contenders. The window to substitute Audu, rather than serve as a relief to the APC, sparked off another round of crisis as the deputy governorship candidate, Hon. James Faleke wrote to INEC that he should be declared winner on the ground that the supplementary poll was needless as the number of eligible voters in the affected areas stood at 25, 000 and so will not make any impact in the overall result. The PDP, on its part, urged the electoral body to declare its candidate – Wada, winner of the election as the votes garnered by Audu were not transferable. The party further argued that Audu’s votes died with him. When INEC insisted on going ahead with the supplementary poll, the APC was left with no other option than nominated the first runner up in its governorship primaries, Yahaya Bello as Audu’s substitute and he was declared winner at the conclusion of the election. The APC garnered 6,885 votes in the supplementary poll to bring its total votes to 247, 752, having polled 240,857 in the November 21 election, while the PDP candidate (Wada), scored 5, 363 to take his total votes to 204, 877 votes. He had earlier garnered 199, 514 votes. The December 5, 2015, Bayelsa poll, which was also characterised by poor logistics and violence, had voting in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of the state shifted to the next day as armed thugs disrupted distribution of election materials in the council on election day. The rescheduled poll, however, suffered several hitches and had to be cancelled, thereby re-enacting the Kogi inconclusive scenario. Widespread violence, which prevented conduct of the election in the local government, persisted the next day despite deployment of more security personnel. Declaring the poll inclusive, INEC said Southern Ijaw’s 120,827 registered voters would be the decider being the largest of the eight local government areas of the state. Governor Seriake Dickson of the PDP was then leading in six of the seven local government areas of the state declared by INEC. He polled 105,748 votes, while his closest rival, a former governor of the state, Chief Timipre Sylva of the APC won in only one and had 72, 594 votes. The impasse was resolved after Dickson won the January 9 rescheduled poll. He polled 134,998 votes to emerge winner of the election, while Sylva scored 86,852 votes to place second. Like in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the March 19, 2016 national and state Assembly rerun elections in Rivers State, also ended on inconclusive note as INEC had to suspended elections in all constituencies in the state midway into the exercise. The commission said it ordered the suspension, pending the receipt of a comprehensive report from its field officials and monitors. It had earlier cancelled election in eight local councils in the state because of violence. The story was the same in the FCT council election on April 9, 2016. The electoral commission declared four out of the six chairmanship positions inconclusive. The four Area Councils were Abaji, Gwagwalada, Abuja Municipal and Kuje. The other Area Councils where elections were conducted are Bwari and Kwali. The poll was later rescheduled for Wednesday April 14 in 39 polling units in 20 registration areas of the capital city. Results from the affected polling units were cancelled for reasons ranging from violence, over voting and non-use of card readers for accreditation of voters. The Ife Central State Constitu-ency of Osun State rerun, which held also on April 9, 2016, was equally declared inconclusive before it was resolved the next day – Sunday April 10. It was a similar situation during the 2016 governorship election in Edo State. INEC had earlier scheduled the poll to hold on September 10, but called it off two days to the poll. The exercise was postponed to September 28. The commission attributed the postponement to alleged security threat as reported by the security agencies. It said the Department of State Services (DSS) and police advised the commission to shift the poll. The most recent case of inconclusive poll under Yakubu’s led INEC was the September 22, governorship election in Osun State. The poll was decided through a rerun held on September 27, following the declaration of the first round of balloting as inconclusive. Gboyega Oyetola, who ran on the platform of the APC won the poll by scoring 255,505 votes to defeat his main rival, Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP, who scored 255,023 votes. Angst 2019 polls shift Stakeholders, who spoke on the postponement of the 2019 general elections, described it as a worrisome development that might erode the peoples’ confidence in the polls outcome. Their frustrations can be justified given that INEC released the schedule for the elections a year ahead. The commission had on January 9. 2018, announced that the 2019 presidential and National Assembly elections will hold on February 16, while the governorship/ states Assembly/Federal Capital Territory Area Council elections will hold on March 2. The commission explained then that it released the timetable 19 months ahead “in order to ensure certainty in our dates for elections, and to allow for proper planning by the commission, political parties, security agencies, candidates and all stakeholders.” This, perhaps, explained President Muhammadu Buhari’s frustration over the postponement. “I am deeply disappointed that despite the long notice given and our preparations both locally and internationally, INEC postponed the presidential and National Assembly elections within hours of its commencement,” the President said on Saturday. He added: “Many Nigerians have traveled to various locations to exercise their right to vote, and international observers are gathered. INEC has given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections. We and all our citizens believed them. This administration has ensured that we do not interfere in any way with the work of INEC except to ensure that all funds were released to the commission. “We now urge INEC to ensure not only that materials already distributed are safe and do not get into wrong hands, but that everything is done to avoid the lapses that resulted in this unfortunate postponement, and ensure a free and fair election on the rescheduled dates.” The presidential candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar, who also decried the postponement, however, accused President Buhari of instigating the shift to disenfranchise Nigerians. According to him the postponement was a ploy by the Buhari administration to ensure that turnout of voters becomes very low on the rescheduled date in order for his party to rig the poll. His words: “This postponement is obviously a case of the hand of Esau but the voice of Jacob. By instigating this postponement, the Buhari administration hopes to disenfranchise the Nigerian electorate in order to ensure that turn out is low on the rescheduled date. “The Buhari administration has had more than enough time and money to prepare for these elections and the Nigerian people were poised and ready to perform their civic responsibility by voting in the elections earlier scheduled for Saturday, February 16. Knowing that the Nigerian people are determined to reject them, they are desperate and will do anything in their power to avoid their rejection by the Nigerian people.” Another presidential candidate, Donald Duke of Social Democratic Party (SDP), not only described INEC’s action as a national disgrace, but called on the INEC chairency man to resign. He said: “Putting it lightly and as respectfully as I can, the postponement of the elections is a national disgrace. I listened to your (Prof. Yakubu) interaction with stakeholders and thought it pathetic that you were seeking sympathy and understanding. I likened you to an Olympian who has four years to prepare and at the Olympics itself, forgets to bring along his kit. “You spoke about poor weather (harmattan), bad roads etc. So lame and so plebeian, you failed above all to take responsibility. Not say it, take it. You and I know that no proper nation-state in the world will accept what the commission has done. You ought to resign. “Clearly, there’s more here than meets the eye. I have been in government and I’m not naive, this is not your initiative, this is a script given to you to play. Basically, it is designed to financially wear out the opposition. PDP did same, theirs was a week or so to the elections, yours is four hours to the commencement of voting, literally taking it to the ‘Next Level.’ “Unfortunately, you are not man enough to reject the script and walk away. Remember Prof. Humphrey Nwosu, he retired into ignominy. Your fate may not be different. Regardless of how well the future elections may go, it is now contaminated. I feel so sorry for one I held in such high esteem.” The Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP), in its reaction, described inconsistencies associated the preparations for the generations as supervised by INEC as “part of a deliberate plot by anti-democratic forces to derail Nigerian democracy and enthrone an interim government in country. The group, in a statement by its Secretary General, Chief Willy Ezugwu wondered why “an election that took the electoral umpire four years to prepare for, would be postponed at eleventh hour despite assurances by the commission that it was ready for the elections. “Before now, there has been subtle mussing about plans by some forces to enthrone an interim government on the country and it is becoming obvious that such forces have thrown their evil spanners into the democratic electoral process to have a reason to carry out their clandestine agenda. “These forces, we suspect, are the same that have carried out systematic arson that led to the destruction of electoral materials and Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) at different parts of the country few days to the election and the killings in Kaduna State on the eve of the election,” CNPP said. The group insisted that the ruling party and the INEC should be held accountable should its fears come to materialization as there might be another postponement of the rescheduled February 23 presidential and National Assembly elections. No doubt, the task before Yakubu as his commission re-strategises ahead of this weekend’s rescheduled polls, is not an easy one, but electoral body has no option than live up to its responsibility to avoid eroding the peoples’ confidence in the electoral process as well as the gains of the 2015 general elections.