It was a thing of pride recently when women engineers gathered in Enugu State for a summit. They stressed that they were committed to getting more women and girls to join the growing number of female engineers in the country. KENNETH OFOMA reports from Enugu  Many would consider women in engineering as special women. They are special because they dared to thread in an area where men, not just any man, but men of sterner stuff dominate. No doubt, all over the world, the field of engineering is a man’s world. No wonder only very few women are found in the profession. Perhaps, that’s why the few in the profession in Nigeria decided to distinguish themselves. They are members of Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) but they also formed their exclusive club under the aegis of Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN). Recently, the women engineers gathered in Enugu in what could be termed a double barrel event. One, to celebrate their exploits and ‘blow’ their trumpets, as it were, in terms of what they have achieved and still achieving in the engineering field; and secondly, to show solidarity to the Enugu State chapter of the Association which witnessed a change of baton between the old and new leadership of the body in the state. It was an investiture of Engr. Ekoh, Evangeline (MNSE, MNICE, MNIHE), the 6th Chairman of APWEN in Enugu, and inauguration of the new executives. The event, which took place at the prestigious Bon Sunshine Hotel and Towers, Enugu, witnessed an array of dignitaries, including the National President of APWEN, Engr Felicia Nnenna Agubata, who was represented by the South East Coordinator and National Publicity Secretary of APWEN, Engr. Chinwe Mba; Deputy Governor of Enugu State, Barr. (Mrs) Cecelia Ezeilo; the President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Enugu State chapter, Chief Alex Ogbonnia; Royal Father of the Day, Igwe (Engr.) John Ibe, the Ohabuenyi II of Ekpulambo Mgbowo; Enugu State chapter chairman of Nigerian Society of Engineers, Engr. Festus Ozoemena; and Keynote Speaker, Prof. Joy Ezeilo, the Dean, Faculty of Law, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus (UNEC). Other branch chairmen of APWEN were on hand to support their colleagues in Enugu. Agubata, who served as Chairman of the occasion, wasted no time in informing the gathering that the association prides itself with many accomplishments in her relatively short period of existence. According to her, as part of efforts to promote early interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education among young Nigerians, APWEN, an affiliate of Nigerian Society of Engineers, has awarded scholarship to 61 pupils across the country from primary to university level.  The National President explained that the scholarship was in partnership with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), under the “Invent It, Build It” programme of APWEN. Aguabata, who was represented by Engr (Mrs) Mba, stated that APWEN, formed in 1983 and with current membership of about 1688 registered female engineers, had the mission to continuously increase awareness that engineering is also a career for girls, thereby improving the strength of female engineers; encourage women to achieve professional excellence as engineers and leaders; and to promote STEM as a positive force in enhancing the quality of life. The APWEN President stated: “’The Invent It, Build It’ programme, a partnership with NNPC; commenced since April 2018, with the first launch in Bauchi State and subsequently, we have covered five geopolitical zones of Nigeria and have given scholarships to 61 pupils from primary to University”.   Agubata noted that the Association had equally instituted an Annual lecture series for her founding Legends, which aim was to celebrate them while they are still alive. She listed the lecture series to include; the Engr. Olutunmbi Joanna Maduka and Engr. Nkechi Isigwe annual lectures, as well as Engr. Mayen Adetiba Technical camp for girls. “Official launch of Engr. Grace Ezema’s WASH (water, sanitation and hygiene) programme; the first female graduate engineer in Nigeria, is on course. “In conclusion, I appeal for your support and urge all female engineers in this vicinity to join her new chairman to keep the vision of our great association alive,” she said. In her inaugural address, the new Chairman of APWEN in Enugu State, Engr. Evangeline Ekoh, who succeeded Engr. (Mrs) Ukamaka Eze, announced that her regime would intensify visits to the rural areas for career talks and guidance in schools in pursuit of “Catch them Young” policy of the organization, especially among female pupils and students. She also said that the organization under her watch would partner with media organizations, the State Ministry of Education, Enugu State Post Primary School Management Board (PPSMB), and Science Technical Vocational School Management Board (STVSMB). “The impact of our Association has been encouraging as more girls are opting to become Engineers; since our motto is geared towards encouraging, enhancing and excelling. “The theme of our investiture/inaugural lecture by Prof. Joy Ezeilo titled ‘Women in Leadership/Public Services: the Engineers’ Perspective’ is of essence because of the active role we play in the public service,” she said. Special Guest of Honour at the occasion and Enugu State Deputy Governor, Mrs. Cecelia Ezeillo, represented by the Permanent Secretary in her Office, Mrs. Chioma Ugwu, while congratulating the new APWEN Chairman, lauded her vision to embark on enlightenment tour of schools to encourage female students to study science and engineering courses when they enter the tertiary institutions, which she said remained the backbone of scientific and technological development of any nation. “Today, we heard that men should give women a chance, support them so that we can move. What a man can do, a woman can do better.  “In the past, they said that a woman who studied engineering course will not get married but the new chairman has told us today that her regime will embark on visit to rural areas to get those girls that want to study engineering to go on, that sky is their limit; they will marry and marry to the best man.
“I have taken note of your requests which I will convey to the Deputy Governor. You need vehicle, and you need office; all these will be done in Jesus name, Amen.” The keynote speaker, Prof. Joy Ezeilo, in her lecture entitled,    “Women in Leadership/Public Services: the Engineers’ Perspective”, said leadership was about impact and influence. She said that in Nigeria, there is deficit of women in governance, and that the few in leadership position carry out their mandate without involving women issues, as they try to work like men. The Dean Faculty of Law of UNEC said that one of the ways of raising quality of leadership whether in men or women was transparency and accountability. She gave example of late Prof. Dora Akunyili as one of those that excelled in leadership and made women proud. “Women should try to scale gender blackmail, which tries to force them to look at gender issues as of little importance. “For women, leadership position is very important because when they occupy leadership position they raise the bar of performance; and women have they have resilience to excel. “Leadership has been recognized as driving force for success in any nation organisation, it begins with the person’s inner spirit and commitment to serve the people and God. “Everybody has innate capacity for leadership when developed. Character building is one of the ways to prepare oneself to lead… Good leadership like good money is difficult to come by… leadership is a process that is ultimately concerned with fostering change. Personality and character of a leader is very important,” she said. Ezeilo advised women in leadership to prepare themselves to doing the hard job and to prepare for the usual challenges that face women in leadership. Women, she said, should also try to build their capacity, which will be the propelling force. The major challenge according to her is that women are not given opportunity to explore their talent. But that they should not give up, and should build linkages across the divide, support and learn from each other in order to make impact. Earlier, the out-gone chairman of APWEN in Enugu State, Engr. (Mrs) Ukamaka Eze, said that during her regime, the association participated in various local and international conferences, including conference for Society of Women Engineers (SWE) held in Philadelphia and Austin Texas in United States of America and International conference for Women Engineers and Scientists held in India.  