Some years ago, I read a story which I recently stumbled on again. I am sure some of us have read it too. I hope it impacts us today. It goes thus: An elephant and a dog became pregnant at the same time. Three months down the line, the dog gave birth to six puppies. Six months later the dog was pregnant again, and nine months on it gave birth to a dozen puppies. The pattern continued. Eighteen months later, the dog approached the elephant and said the following: “Are you sure that you are pregnant? We became pregnant on the same day. I have given birth three times to a dozen puppies and they are now grown to become big dogs, yet you are still pregnant. What’s going on? What sort of a pregnancy is that?” “For your information,” the elephant replied, “I am pregnant,” he continued. “Furthermore, there is something I want you to understand; what I am carrying is not a puppy, it is an elephant. The two are not comparable. My pregnancy period is 23 months. “My calf (baby), once delivered, weighs around 200 lbs., (91 kg) and stands about 3 feet (1 m) tall. As my calf grows, it will gain 2 to 3 lbs. every day until its first birthday. When my calves are 13 to 20 years old, they will be mature enough to have their own young. By the way, we (Elephants) live 30 to 50 years in the wild. We live longer. “Should I say more?” The elephant continued: “My babies are unique, compared to other animals’ babies. When my baby hits the ground, the earth feels it. When my baby crosses the road, human beings stop and watch in admiration. What I carry draws attention. I don’t do mass-production. So what I’m carrying is bigger and mightier than all the dozens of puppies you’ve ever given birth to.” I’m sure you’ll agree with me that after all this admonition from the elephant; the puppy would definitely have nothing to say again. ARE YOU SURE YOU ARE PREGNANT? could mean many things in this context. It is like someone asking you – are you sure you will make it in life? Are you sure you will end well? Are you sure you will be healed of this sickness? Are you really sure you will give birth at all? Are you sure of this? Are you sure of that? When next someone is in doubt of what your life would become, tell them what you are carrying “is not a puppy but “an elephant”. That they are not seeing physical proof now doesn’t mean it’s not there or that you’ve been forgotten.
What you are carrying is great stuff. Great stuff takes time to be delivered. Don’t lose faith when you see others receive answers to their prayers. Your turn and time is coming. You carry greatness. Never allow anyone to steal your joy. Never allow anyone define your life based on your present circumstances. What you carry is greatness, and it is not cheap; hence the delay. Wake up every morning and say to yourself “I CARRY GREATNESS. I CARRY GREATNESS. I CARRY GREATNESS”. You need to say this over and over till your cells, tissues, organs and everything in you gets the message. When next you’re asked – “are you sure you are pregnant?” Tell them: “Yes I am. And what I am carrying is so big and mighty that I doubt if you have ever seen any like it before. What I am carrying is like a million in one. When it comes out, you will be amazed!” Faith shows the reality of what we hope for; it is the evidence of things we cannot see. (Heb 11:1) Keep saying it till you see it. When you speak greatness, you will see greatness. So friends, this week, tell friends and anyone who cares to listen that YOU ARE PREGNANT. If they ask of what, tell them: G-R-E-A-T-N-E-S-S.  Have a great week