A pressure group, Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement (AILM) has condemned the call by the APC in the state demanding the redeployment of Mr. Michael Igini, Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC in Akwa Ibom, saying the action was a sign of lack of preparation for free and fair election later this month. The movement in a press release on Wednesday 7th February, signed by its leader, Prince Emmanuel Sam said the call was a last minute protest by the opposition which has seen that it cannot win an election in a PDP dominated state. The group frowned at the deliberate dissemination of fake news on the internet by known agents of the APC claiming that Mike Igini has been redeployed to another state; insisting that the call was a weak propaganda to whip public sentiment and sympathy after the party failed in its bid to buy over the REC. “The mounting pressure on replacing an uncooperating REC is despicable and highly condemnable. It is a clear sign of its unpreparedness for a credible, free and fair contest.” “We at the Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement, AILM therefore condemn in strong terms the APC sponsored fake news on Mr. Igini. Even if federal government were to succumb to the increasing pressure of these desperate political jobbers, we urge Akwa Ibom people to reject all carriers of doom, bloodshed and insecurity through the ballot. This state cannot afford to return to those evil days, we MUST arise to ensure peace and equitable development of Akwa Ibom State.” The group condemned the incessant pressure by the APC in redeployment of security chiefs to the state and the shunning of the signing of the peace accord. “Apparently, APC is constantly suspicious of security chiefs that do not bend to their mendacious plan to exert the infamous ‘federal might’ on the people and would go to great length to ‘arrange’ the reposting of un- cooperating officers out of the state. Consequently, the state ranks the highest in terms of transfers of top security chiefs even when there is no armed crises  or insurgency. ” ” …The complete boycott of the peace and security conference recently organised by INEC in the state. The event was attended by all candidates of political parties contesting in the elections including the state governor, Elder Udom Gabriel Emmanuel. Yet, APC candidates stayed away. Even the governorship candidate of APC, Mr. Nsima Ekere, entirely  shunned the peace meeting citing unsubstantiated reasons for the boycott. Ekere was expected to sign a peace accord against violence before, during and after the election s. But, he carefully avoided committing to a peaceful process for obvious reasons.” Read details of the release below. WHY IS APC JITTERY OVER A’IBOM INEC COMMISSIONER? The All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State has repeatedly displayed tendencies which suggest it is not ready to allow the free and fair conduct of the forthcoming general elections. At several occasions, its leadership has acted in manner that threatens not only the credibility of the coming polls, but also the peace and security of the state. Apparently, APC is constantly suspicious of security chiefs that do not bend to their mendacious plan to exert the infamous ‘federal might’ on the people and would go to great length to ‘arrange’ the reposting of un- cooperating officers out of the state. Consequently, the state ranks the highest in terms of transfers of top security chiefs even when there is no armed crises  or insurgency. At the moment, the APC leadership is upset over its inability to buy  the substantive INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr. Mike Igini, thus it has sponsored a campaign of lies alleging his reposting to Bayelsa state. From the virulence of this fake news, it is obvious that the party is not sparing any news platform online to propagate this completely false rumour about the alleged reposting of the REC.  Even supposedly credible national newspapers like the Guardian and Vanguard fell for this vile deceit. Perhaps they paid more attention to pecuniary considerations than responsible and verifiable reportage. A clue to APC’s sinister plan during the coming polls is its complete boycott of the peace and security conference recently organised by INEC in the state. The event was attended by all candidates of political parties contesting in the elections including the state governor, Elder Udom Gabriel Emmanuel. Yet, APC candidates stayed away. Even the governorship candidate of APC, Mr. Nsima Ekere, entirely  shunned the peace meeting citing unsubstantiated reasons for the boycott. Ekere was expected to sign a peace accord against violence before, during and after the election s. But, he carefully avoided committing to a peaceful process for obvious reasons. Questions that beg for answers are, why should APC pay much more attention on who mans INEC rather than campaigning for votes from electorates? Why is APC seeking the reposting of the REC that has just been posted to the state? If the APC is so certain of sweeping votes in the state ‘within three hours, why the sudden anxiety only few days to elections? Has APC now accepted the reality that it cannot win in a predominantly PDP state without coercing INEC officials and security agencies to rig the elections? Knowing full well that it does not have robust political structures on ground to win any of the contested positions in the coming elections, the Akwa Ibom State chapter of APC is bent on actualizing its evil rigging scheme. The mounting pressure on replacing an un-cooperating REC is despicable and highly condemnable. It is a clear sign of its unpreparedness for a credible, free and fair contest. We at the Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement, AILM therefore condemn in strong terms the APC sponsored fake news on Mr. Igini. Even if federal government were to succumb to the increasing pressure of these desperate political jobbers, we urge Akwa Ibom people to reject all carriers of doom, bloodshed and insecurity through the ballot. This state cannot afford to return to those evil days, we MUST arise to ensure peace and equitable development of Akwa Ibom State.