The Kaduna State Chapter of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) yesterday raised an alarm over alleged plan by the State governor Mallam Nasir El-Rufai to “use the state sponsored Vigilante service as part of the election security”. CUPP disclosed that the plot is unacceptable as the state Governor is planning to use the vigilante to rig the election in favor of the incumbent. Addressing a press conference in Kaduna on Tuesday, CUPP chairman, Hon. Umar Ibrahim Mairakumi who is also the chairman of Labour Party in the State also accused the state governor of surreptitiously working to transfer indigenous police officers working in the state to pave way for the rigging. Mairakumi said, “we wish to call on the attention of the general public, particularly, the Nigeria Police Force, the Independent National Electoral Commission and all relevant security agencies and stakeholders on the grand plan by governor Nasir Elrufai to use his state sponsored security operatives to manipulate and rig the 2019 general election. “The CUPP has noted with dismay, the efforts of Governor El-Rufai lobbying to influence the transfer of all indigenous police officers and men serving in Kaduna State out of the state command. This is uncalled for and unnecessary at this crucial time of the election. “CUPP also, noted with keen interest, His Excellency, Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai working hard to obtain the approval of INEC and influence the Kaduna State Police Command to accept his state sponsored Kaduna Vigilante Services popularly referred to as “Kato da Gora” to participate in the election as part of the election security team. This is unacceptable!” Mairakumi disclosed that “the governor in his desperation recently inaugurated a new security operative in the guise of “Kaduna State Local Government Safety and Emergency Management Volunteers“, who are going to be used as Polling Unit Guards. “This is unacceptable and must be resisted.  We therefore call on the attention of INEC, Security Agencies, Nigerians and indeed the International Observers to this unhealthy political development so that his action should not only be totally condemned but rejected out rightly.” According to him, the governor’s action is against INEC guidelines for the conduct of the 2019 General Elections, adding that “All political parties have the responsibility of ensuring peaceful conduct of elections as it has been the practice. CUPP and indeed, the political parties are confident in the ability and capacity of the Nigeria Police Force and the statutory Federal Security Agencies to provide adequate security and guaranty peaceful election at all polling units and voting centers in the state and the country at large. “It is of paramount importance that the challenges posed by the Kaduna State Governor, as highlighted above, should be viewed with seriousness by all stakeholders, particularly the media and international observers to ensure that all effort to undermine the process and rig the election should be resisted and stopped. “We call on all security agencies and independent National Electoral Commission to ensure that the process and conduct of the 2019 general election is not only free and fair but credible and in line with international best practices.”