 The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has assured its workers that the issues of staff welfare would be given a priority attention this year.
This assurance was given during the send forth party organized for the Chief Press Secretary ( CPS ) Cosmos Uzodinma, who bowed out of service after a statutory 35 years in the civil service.
Giving the assurance, FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr. Christian Ohaa, said plans were underway to enhance the welfare of its staff in order to prepare them for a comfortable life after retirement.
The Permanent Secretary said as part of the Administration’s staff welfare scheme, measures were being put in place to facilitate the provision of accommodation for staff as well as equip them with relevant skills before retirement.
He said: “We are trying as much as we can to make sure that anybody retiring here retires with hope and confidence; that is why our welfare scheme is trying to take care of your accommodation and also pre-retirement training to prepare staff for retirement.”
Speaking on the outstanding qualities of the outgoing CPS, Sir Chinyaka Ohaa described him as a humble and detribalized Nigerian.
His words: “Cosmas gave his all to FCTA. He was the best Master of Ceremony, a prolific speech writer and good man. For all these and more, he will receive more blessings now, more than ever before.
“He is a man that has no iniquity in his soul. He will reap the fruit of all his hard work and make more money now that he has retired. Keep up the good work and God will continue to reward you”.
In his response, the out-going Chief Press Secretary, in an emotion filled voice, thanked the FCTA for giving him the opportunity to serve. He described his work as an opportunity to express himself, for which he will forever remain grateful to the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, who, he said, proved to him that, “you don’t have to know people in high places for your worth to be recognized”, when he appointed him as the Chief Press Secretary.