…says no need for AFCON target for Eagles  Former Super Eagles captain Joseph Yobo has urged Manager Gernot Rohr to prosecute the team’s last African Cup of Nations qualifier against Seychelles with fringe players. The 2013 AFCON winner said it would be needless to field key players like Odion Ighalo, Ahmed Musa and the rest in a dead-rubber game, saying the match has produced an opportunity to try youngsters. “They have qualified for the AFCON, so this match is not quite important; this is an opportunity to give young ones the chance to get to know the team very well. You didn’t have the luxury of using these fringe players during important matches but I think it won’t be a bad idea if the coach gives them the chance against Seychelles,” he said. The former Everton of England defender also advised Nigerians not to put Eagles under unnecessary pressure by setting a target for them ahead of 2019 AFCON, insisting the three-time winners can claim the trophy in Egypt this time. “They have got the chance to win AFCON; one thing that fascinates me about this team is that they qualified for the Nations Cup even with a game to spare, it is always difficult to go through qualification in Africa. They can also build on their experience at the World Cup even though they didn’t get far but the future is looking bright for them.  “As sportsmen, you go into a tournament with an intention to win it, so it is possible for the Eagles to win AFCON because they were not in the competition for some time now. However, for me, I don’t think we should set a target for them; they should take a match at a time,” he added. Current Eagles’ skipper Mikel Obi hasn’t played for the side since the last World Cup but Yobo insisted the Middlesbrough player would be key to the side’s success at AFCON. “You can never rule out a player if he’s performing; with the kind of experience that he has, if I were the coach I will keep him close as long as he is fit even though the team has been doing well without him. Mikel is playing for a new club now where he is performing; it is for the coach to decide if he will start every match in AFCON but he actually deserves to be in the team considering his form at the moment,” he added. The former Norwich City strongman is happy Eagles’ defenders are doing well at their respective clubs. He hopes the player can sustain such form when the tournament gets underway in June. “It is very good for the defenders to be doing well now; defence is key to any team, it’s the strong base, in a game, you can score a goal and you shut down the opponents to win, that is the importance of a good defence. I am happy the lads are doing well; I played with (Kenneth) Omeruo, he’s is a very good defender who I tipped to take over from me, it is fantastic he is showing his potentialities in Spain right now. Leon Balogun and the rest of the guys are also not doing badly,” he said.