…as Solskjaer sets sights on PSG  Manchester United have moved into fourth place in the Premier League table with a 3-0 victory over Fulham in Saturday’s clash at Craven Cottage.  Paul Pogba and Anthony Martial put United into a two-goal lead within 23 minutes, before a spot kick from the impressive Pogba completed a comfortable afternoon for the visitors. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has now won 10 of his 11 games in caretaker charge of United, while Fulham remain in 19th position and seven points adrift of safety. Fulham should have been ahead within the first 60 seconds of the game but after some good work from Andre Schurrle down the right flank, Luciano Vietto somehow failed to hit the target at the back post after meeting the German’s cross.  Schurrle then saw a shot deflected over the crossbar from by the penalty spot, but those missed opportunities allowed United to settle and the visitors went ahead just before the quarter-of-an-hour mark.  Meanwhile, Manchester United coach, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, has said the victory against Fulham was a perfect preparation against their next Champions League match against PSG. The coach hailed Manchester United’s win at Fulham and a return to the top four as perfect preparation for the Champions League clash with Paris St Germain on Tuesday.  United sealed a comfortable 3-0 victory at Craven Cottage as a Paul Pogba brace and a fine Anthony Martial strike extended Solskjaer’s unbeaten start as interim manager. The Norwegian has overseen 10 wins from his 11 games at the helm and he made six changes in west London with one eye on his first taste of managing the Red Devils in Europe.  Pogba stole the show but Martial impressed on his recall with Diogo Dalot, Phil Jones and Chris Smalling helping to keep a clean sheet after coming back into the side, with Romelu Lukaku and Juan Mata also given a chance to impress. Asked if this was ideal preparation for facing PSG, Solskjaer said: “Yes, I would have to say so because it’s a tough place to come.”