Stadium may be shut again Wednesday Three choppers landed inside facilities on Saturday   With the National Stadium Surulere, Lagos finally opened on Sunday after one week under lock and keys, vendors and other people making use of the facilities for business have have continued to count their losses.
When our correspondent visited the stadium on Monday, most of the shops and other drinking joints within the premises were opened with some carrying out cleaning jobs.
It would be recalled that the stadium was closed since February 2 in preparation for the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari on February 9 and it was opened on Sunday February 10, a day after PMB’s visit.
For fear of victimization, most vendors, who spoke with New Telegraph craved anonymity, as they berated the closure of the facilities.
Two popular drinking joints within the National Stadium, Ojez Entertainment Limited and Old Skool Generation Spot, which housed the popular Lt General Kenneth Minimah Executive Hostel, were said to have lost millions of naira.
“It was a monumental loss for us as we couldn’t make any sales during the closure,” a staff of Old Skool Generation Spot, who craved anonymity, said.
“There were so many things bought in preparation for the weekend sales but they all got spoilt because they were all perishable goods.
“Even those things that were not perishables, we were still unable to make any sales from them during the period the place was shut down.
“The hotel too didn’t make any sales because no room for lodging as nobody could even enter the stadium not to talk of coming to the hotel. Even the lodgers that were there on Friday February 1 were locked in all through Saturday before they were allowed to leave late in the evening.”
The same thing was said of Ojez and other smaller joints within the stadium.
Another operator of a popular joint within the premises who is said to be making around N30,000 to N60,000 weekdays, and over N80,000 every weekend also counted her loss in a chat with our correspondent.
A food seller who also didn’t want her name in print said she was happy that they had returned to their businesses but revealed that she lost a lot during the one-week shutdown.
While cleaning her shop, the young woman told our correspondent that, “I feed my family with proceeds from my business here but was unable to make a kobo in a week.
“We can’t say we are happy but have to abide by the management’s decision. It is a government’s property and they can use it for whatsoever reason.”
At the main entrance to the stadium, a staff of JEP Group, the company in-charge of the gate taking said they lost roughly N300,000.
At the swimming pool side, students of Children International School, Lekki, were seen training and it was reported that they always pay to use the pool every Saturday, but decided to come on Monday after missing two weekends due to their inability to gain entrance into the edifice.
Speaking with New Telegraph, the swimming coach of the school, Moses Itimi, said they were preparing for a championship hence coming to the stadium all the way from Lekki.
“Even though we have a swimming pool in the school, but the length is 25m and the swimmers need to train in a 50m water, that’s why we have been coming here (stadium).”
The Vice President of the Para Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Taiwo Kasumu, who was seen at the gym said they had to improvise with the training of their athletes.
The former Technical Director of the PAFN said they couldn’t afford not to their athletes, so they decided to do that somewhere else during the closure of the stadium.
He further revealed that they had already resigned to fate as the stadium might likely go under lock and keys again from Wednesday in preparation for this weekend’s election.
It was also revealed to our correspondent that over 500 staff of the Lagos Waste Management Authority were at the stadium on daily basis to clean the place while all the vehicles within the premises were all removed during the period.
Meanwhile, it was reported that three choppers landed inside the stadium on Saturday with one of them bringing the president for the campaign over the weekend.