Telecommunications subscribers across the four mobile networks in Nigeria spent an estimated N3.15 trillion on airtime last year, New Telegraph has learnt. This amount covered what was spent on voice, text message and data services from the mobile network operators (MNOs). The money spent by the subscribers in the 12-month period also represents the estimated amount generated by telecoms as revenue from airtime. The figure was, however, conservative considering that MTN alone disclosed it generated N457 billion from voice and data services in the first six months of the year. The estimated spending on airtime by subscribers was arrived at using the monthly active subscriber base for the year as released by the telecoms regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), and the monthly Average Revenue Per User (ARPU). ARPU is the industry benchmark determined by industry players to measure the average or mean spending by telecoms consumers on airtime, which they, in turn, use to access voice and data services. According to the President of Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Mr. Olusola Teniola, Nigeria’s telecoms ARPU in 2018 stood approximately at N1,645 or $4.57 per subscriber. Monthly analysis of the spending showed that with 146.8 million active subscriptions in January 2018, the subscribers spent an estimated N241.6 billion on airtime. In February and March, when active subscriptions stood at 147.9 million and N148.9 million, the estimated consumer spending was N243.4 billion and N244.9 billion respectively. By April when the operators added 11.2 million active subscribers to hit 160 million, consumer spending on airtime stood at N263.3 billion. In May, mobile subscriptions hit 162 million with an estimated recharge card purchase of N266.6 billion. Also, airtime spending last June, July and August were estimated at N266.9 billion; N265.5 billion and N264.05 billion when active telephone users across different mobile networks seated at 162.3 million, 161.4 million and 160.5 million in that order. In addition, operators raked in N265.9 billion and N271.2 billion in September and October as subscriptions rose to 161.6 million and 164.9 million respectively. By November and December, when active subscribers were 168.7 million and 172.5 million, the amount spent by the subscribers on airtime purchase were estimated at N277.5 billion and N283.7 billion respectively. However, despite the geometric growth in subscriber base witnessed in the year, the MNOs earned less than they could have earned from the growth, as the subscribers’ ARPU declined over the period. In 2017, the ARPU stood at around $6 however; it came down to $4.57 in 2018, according to ATCON, which means the subscribers spent less than they did the previous year. The declining ARPU in the industry may not be unconnected with the phenomenon of Over the Top (OTT) services, which the operators said have been threatening their revenue base, as subscribers embrace the likes of WhatsApp, Skype, and Facebook among others for communications. The operators have been lamenting over the operations of the OTTs, which they claim are now threatening their survival as revenues nosedive. Speaking on the dwindling revenue for operators, President of the Association of Licensed Operators of Nigeria (ALTON,) Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, said the idea of technology neutrality, which the telecom regulator holds seriously allows the OTTs to operate in Nigeria without any license, at the expense of the licensed operators. “They are eroding our revenue. The licenses we have enable us to provide voice, data and text message services and these are the avenues through, which we make money,” he said. “However, today, people are no longer sending texts because of the OTTs. Our voice and text message revenues have been affected because subscribers now prefer to send messages over Whatsapp or Facebook rather than text messages; video calls are also gradually replacing the regular voice calls. “If we must maintain the $70 billion investments in the telecom sector, government must balance authorisation between our services and these disruptive technologies. We are losing money. People that have no presence and no license in the country are the ones making money; the regulator must be concerned about this.” However, the telecom regulator has said it would not accede to the request of telcos for the regulation of OTTs, but rather urged the licensed operators to accept the challenge to innovate and explore more efficient business models that would enable them compete favourably with OTT service providers. NCC also believes that the OTTs are helping the telcos drive data consumption, from which they are now generating more revenue.money,” he said. “However, today, people are no longer sending texts because of the OTTs. Our voice and text message revenues have been affected because subscribers now prefer to send messages over Whatsapp or Facebook rather than text messages; video calls are also gradually replacing the regular voice calls. “If we must maintain the $70 billion investments in the telecom sector, government must balance authorisation between our services and these disruptive technologies. We are losing money. People that have no presence and no license in the country are the ones making money; the regulator must be concerned about this.” However, the telecom regulator has said it would not accede to the request of telcos for the regulation of OTTs, but rather urged the licensed operators to accept the challenge to innovate and explore more efficient business models that would enable them compete favourably with OTT service providers. NCC also believes that the OTTs are helping the telcos drive data consumption, from which they are now generating more revenue. Telecommunications subscribers across the four mobile networks in Nigeria spent an estimated N1.05 trillion on airtime in the first five months of the year, New Telegraph has learnt. This amount covered what was spent on voice, text message and data services from the mobile network operators (MNOs).   The amount… In "News" Despite the economic recession, which started in Nigeria in 2016 and lingered till a greater part of 2017, Nige-rian telecoms subscribers across mobile networks still spent a huge chunk of their household income on telecoms services last year, New Telegraph investigations have revealed. According to findings, a whopping N3.208 trillion… In "News" Telecoms subscribers across mobile networks in Nigeria have devoted N2.68 trillion of their household income on purchase of airtime credit on their mobile device, which they used to access both voice and data services from the mobile network operators (MNOs), New Telegraph has learnt. The airtime was purchased across different… In "Business"