Justice Mohammed Idris of a Federal High Court in Lagos has cleared former Oyo State governor, Senator Rashidi Ladoja and one of his aides, Waheed Akanbi, of the N4.7 billion fraud charge slammed on them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The judgement is coming 11 years after the case was instituted by the anti-graft agency against the defendants. Delivering judgement in the matter, Justice Idris first addressed the issue of the defect in the charge as raised by Ladoja, agreeing with the defendant that the charge is indeed defective as even the prosecution team had admitted it is flawed. However, the judge said the defect has not rendered the charge invalid as it has not in any way misled, embarrassed or prejudiced the defendant. “It is clear that the prosecution has conceded that the charge is defective as contended by the first defendant (Ladoja). However, not all defects in the charge could make it invalid. “The first defendant did not say he was misled by any error in the charge. He is also not embarrassed or prejudiced by the defective in the charge”, the judge held. Justice Idris later dealt with the evidences proffered by the prosecution witnesses and concluded that he could not attach any weight to them. According to him, the evidences of the witnesses were full of contradictions, makes it difficult for them to be relied on. “The contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses were not explained by the prosecution during trial. In the absence of such explanations, the court resolved the contradictions in favour of the defendants. There is no shadow of evidence linking the defendants to the receipt or use of any funds. “Credible evidence is not evidence that is necessarily true but it is evidence that is worthy of belief upon which the court can convict. Where a court in a criminal trial thinks there is a less than fifty percent chance that a crime was committed, then the court must return a verdict of not guilty. The highest burden of proof before getting to beyond reasonable doubt is of course, clear and convincing evidence. “Where at the close of the prosecution’s case, the evidence points to an inference consistent both with guilty and as well as with non-guilty of a defendant, it cannot be said that the prosecution has proved his case beyond reasonable doubt against such a defendant,” he added. The judge, while emphasising that the case of the prosecution is too low on credible evidence, noted with dismay that some of its witnesses were ‘accomplices’. “I agreed with the first defendant that to sustain the charge against him, the prosecution brought six witnesses three of whom are ‘accomplices’ who adduced material evidence for the prosecution. The court therefore warned itself of the danger of believing the evidence of these accomplices,” he stated, consequently berating the prosecution for shielding those it ought to prosecute from justice “From the evidences before the court, it is clear who committed an offence if indeed any is committed. Particularly, the alleged conversion and retention of N1.9 billion or any part of it. The evidence given by the prosecution witnesses cast serious doubt on the case of the prosecution against the defendants. The prosecution is not consistent on the allegation that money was missing from the sale of Oyo State shares. From the evidence, it is clear that the first defendant has no knowledge of how the proceeds of shares were shared,” he also noted. In discharging and acquitting Ladoja and his aide of all the 11-counts bordering on the alleged fraud, Justice Idris held: “In conclusion, I must state that this country cannot sustain the fight against corruption in the manner in which this case has been prosecuted where those that should be proper defendants in a case are shielded away from prosecution. This is unacceptable. This is injustice and this court will not be part of it. “There is no doubt that corruption affects us all. It threatens sustainable economic development. It destabilizes the society and endangers the rule of law. Therefore, there is a need for a fair and just prosecution of criminal cases in the fight against corruption. Prosecutors in this fight must be committed to promoting a justice system founded in fairness, equity, compassion and fiscal responsibility. In the light of all that I have said above, I found that the prosecution has not established any of the 11 counts against the defendants beyond reasonable doubt. I am unable in the circumstances to find any of the defendants guilty on any or all of the counts. The first and second defendants are therefore discharged and acquitted of all the counts”.