The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Kaduna State sector command, yesterday said it has deployed 1,014 personnel to support other security agencies in ensuring hitch-free elections in the state. Sector Commander Umar Ibrahim also said that the command had certified 2,514 vehicles and drivers that would be used to move election materials and personnel across the 23 local government areas of the state.  He made this known at the opening of a one-day workshop for officers and marshals of the corps on FRSC’s roles and responsibilities during the elections. He said: “One of our key roles is vehicle and driver’s safety check to ensure that vehicles to be used are road worthy and the drivers are licensed.  This is to ensure that there is no delay or obstruction while moving election materials and personnel. “We are also expected to restrict vehicular movements where necessary in conjunction with other security agencies and provide security for electoral materials from take-off point to their respective destinations. “We will also support other security agencies to ensure orderliness at polling units and collation centres, as well as educate and guide the electorate when necessary.”  He also used the occasion to call on members of the corps to exhibit a high sense of professionalism, operate within the law, shun all forms of gratification and avoid partisanship during the process. On his part, FRSC Corps Marshal, Boboye Oyeyemi, explained that aside traffic management and safety administration, FRSC in conjunction with other security agencies, would be involved in crowd control and maintenance of law and order. He said: “As the lead agency in road traffic administration and safety management in the country, FRSC is a member of the inter-agency committee on election security.  “The corps is also a member of the inter-ministerial committee on logistics for the 2019 general election with specific responsibilities of ensuring safe and free movement of elections vehicles, materials and personnel.” Oyeyemi, represented by Corps Commander, Albanus Nwachukwu, said the training was crucial in ensuring that FRSC diligently carry out the responsibilities entrusted to it by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).