For anyone that has watched closely over the last two decades or thereabouts when football was professionalised and the Nigeria Professional Football League came into being, you would feel scandalised to think that we call what we have right now professional football. One would have expected that since the days of Chief Oyuki Obaseki (fondly called the Moving Train) to Nduka Irabor and now Shehu Dikko-led League Management Company that substantial improvements and gains would had been recorded but instead, the reverse is the case. Hooliganism and poor officiating have been the order of the day and these have become more pronounced in the first two weeks of the NPFL games with referees assaulted and home teams treated with kid gloves by the LMC. If the truth must be told, what is happening to our football and sports in general is a microcosm of happenings at the larger society where nothing, I repeat, nothing seems to work. Despite the fact that we are all exposed to interntional scene where the game is loved by all and treated as a business and a thing of national pride, providing livelihood for millions of people through participations at the different levels, here in Nigeria we pretend not to see the beauty of the game and how things run perfectly. We still behave as if we are from outer space where the rule of the thumb reigns. For how long will this continue? For how long will the LMC allow this to go on? And for how long will Amaju Pinnick – led Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) pretend that its main duty is to look after the Super Eagles while every other teams and football in general is relegated to the backwaters? How do you expect to have sound and successful national teams when your local game is still at it nadir and treated as afterthought by both NFF and LMC? It is perhaps then not surprising to many that the Super Eagles Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr and Pinnick are fixated on going round the world, cap in hand, begging any footballer with the slightest link to Nigeria to play for the national team. Now is the time to do the right thing by enforcing change in the NPL. LMC must sit back and look at it laws and where need be rework it in line with international best practices because we can no longer afford to operate in isolation and expect to win the World Cup. Teams in the NPFL must operate as truly professional club sides as it obtains across the world. Players must play as true professionals with legal and binding contracts between them and the clubs and not this present situation where their contracts are owned by their agents and not the club side while NFF/LMC look the other way. Pray where in the world is such arrangement operated? This is poor and urgent steps must be taken to save the game and the players. Teams must own their stadias and have in place other structures that promote the good and beauty of the game. Football must be treated as a business enterprise and not a mere social contract between the state government and the people. Everything possible must be done again to bring back Nigerians to the stadia to watch live matches. Television stations and other media platforms must be allowed into the stadia as we see in other climes. It is only when some of these basic elements and structures are in place with sound officiating and management that we can truly say that we are on the road to professional football era and not this present convulsion that we call NPFL. Perhaps the only legacy that Pinnick can bequeath to NFF and the game of football in Nigeria as a record two-tenure, president of NFF, is to see to it that football in Nigeria is truly run as a professional entity. Super Eagles is not going to win the next World Cup no matter the investment he ploughs into the team but they can be a true contenders thereafter if he succeeds to institutionalise the game now and bring every one of us back to the stadia again.