The President of the Nigerian Baptist Convention Rev’d Dr. ‘Supo Ayokunle, has warned the Independent national Electoral Commission (INEC} not to allow any verdict inconclusive elections; which he said has characterized most of the past isolated elections. Ayokunle, also the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN} gave the warning ahead of the rescheduled general election which took place yesterday. Speaking in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, Ayokunle noted that sincere and transparent preparations on the part INEC will bring about credible and conclusive elections. He insisted that INEC must do everything possible to ensure that adequate electoral materials get to the various destinations at appropriate time. “A situation where certain areas will be given sensitive electoral materials less than the number of voters must be avoided to ensure mass participation of Nigerians,” Ayokunle stressed. He expressed concern that about what he described as the expected lukewarm attitude of some Nigerians to the Saturday elections pointing out that the rescheduled election has engendered extra cost because voters will have to incur in travelling back to their area of voting. The cleric encouraged all Nigerians to see the need to sacrifice everything to ensure the success of the elections while imploring the electorates to vote for the candidates of their choice. Ayokunle, however, charges the security personnel to put the interest of Nigeria first in the discharge of their duties before, during and after elections. He sent passionate appeal to the security agencies, urging them not allow anybody to pressurise them to do anything that will render the elections unacceptable to Nigerians and the International community.
Ayokunle equally urged the Federal Government to reduce the period of restriction placed on movement on the election days, and allow airlines to operate freely. He, however, cautioned political parties against thuggery and ballot snatching during the elections.