Ralph Akinfeleye, a Professor of Mass Communication and Journalism, is a Media Specialist. He speaks with KAYODE OLANREWAJU about the proposed Mass Communication curriculum with the National Universities Commission (NUC), poor standard of Mass Comm graduates, lack of quality control, and proliferation of Mass Communication Departments in universities without requisite facilities and equipment  It has been observed that the quality of Mass Communication students, especially those on Students Industrial Work Experience (SIWES), is low. What is responsible for this? Well, this depends greatly on the foundation and the institutions these students come from. Of course, it will be difficult to say this about the University of Lagos (UNILAG), University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) or Bayero University, Kano (BUK) or Nnamdi Azikwe University (UNIZIK) Mass Communication departments. But, it won’t be out of point to say that the problem is caused mostly by unending proliferation of Mass Communication institutions nowadays. This is because when universities are being established, after the Faculty of Humanities, the next one is Mass Communication Department. They know that they are going to have enough subscribers and they will charge them heavily. The other point is the National Universities Commission (NUC), which is given people the licence to establish Mass Communication Departments. Mass Communication, as a course of study, is capital intensive and, therefore, it is not just the accumulation of chairs, halls and students. Again, because of the urgency and frequency of the demand of Mass Communication in terms of the tools and facilities, the NUC should design more rigorous facility verification before it grants any university to operate Mass Communication Department either at the university level, and ditto for polytechnic institutions by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). How do you think this could be changed? At the moment we have over 300 Mass Communication departments in higher institutions in different locations in the country. In fact, some of them don’t even have studio and newsroom. It will surprise you that about two years ago, when I led the NUC accreditation team to a university in Nigeria and during the exercise, you won’t believe that the university was still maintaining typing pool, while others are on computer ROMS. Do you know that some of Mass Communication students graduated without knowing the four walls of a studio or newsroom? Do you also know that many of them graduated without departmental newspaper or magazine? But, at UNILAG, we have UNILAG Radio, UNILAG Sun, UNILAG magazine and now the first Television Station, that is Channel 184 on StarTimes. The university has been able to secure a $5 million World Bank grant to procure equipment for the TV Station. We have over 30 High Definition cameras and television sets in our studio. We have an OB Van for both our radio and television stations. It will also amuse you that we have Teleprompter in our studio and also the Red Camera. There are only two of such cameras in the entire country, and UNILAG Television has one of them. If you look at the quality of our facilities and equipment, as well as pattern of employment at UNILAG Mass Communication Department, we you will realize that we are maintaining high quality. For instance, we do not just employ a staff if he has not practised journalism and if he just coming out the class we will not employ him or her. In summary, there should be quality control mechanism, but these are not applicable in most universities running Mass Communication and that is why there are low quality graduates and poor standard.Therefore, the proliferation of Mass Communication departments is affecting the quality of the products and professional standard. A new proposed Mass Communication curriculum is with the NUC, is this part of moves to redress the quality gap? We the Mass Communication trainers are worried to the extent that we have designed a new curriculum for relevance, which we presented to the National Universities Commission for consideration as part of moves to reposition Mass Communication in our universities. This was done about three weeks ago, and the design is to guide against what you just complained about. It is for Mass Communication departments and programmes that are unable to march with others to do so. The situation now is that if a Mass Communication student wants to transfer from UNN to BUK, he or she will transfer with loss of credit, but if the new curriculum is approved by the NUC and it is implemented accordingly, it will be difficult for students to transfer with loss of credits. That is what we are trying to do. Now, most of the Mass Communication departments are put under different faculties. There are some under the Faculty of Arts, Social Sciences, Business Management, Humanities, and so on. There is this inconsistency in the system and we are now proposing that all Mass Communication programmes in all universities should come under a School or College or Faculty. And, what we are trying to do is that universities that have the resources should be able to mount B.Sc Hons in seven courses under Mass Communication School, College of Faculty. These courses are Journalism & Media Studies, Public Relations, Advertising, Broadcasting, Film & Multimedia Studies, Development Communication Studies, and Information & Media Studies. How will this be done? Although, we realise that many universities may not have the resources, such university should start with at least three of these sequences. But, for those institutions that have already mature such as UNILAG, BUK, UNN, LASU and others, they could start with the seven courses. In the good old days, newsrooms were far ahead of the classrooms, but today what we have is that classrooms are far ahead of the newsroom, which is not supposed to be. This is why under that new curriculum we are appealing to the practicing or professional journalists, Advertisers, Public Relations practitioners to come to the classroom to teach the students. They will be able to teach the students those things that are not in the textbooks. Under the new arrangements, we are now also proposing that it should be possible for Mass Communication teachers to go into the industry to practise for few periods before coming back to classroom. From this, we will be able to know what we are doing right and what we are doing wrong. We cannot divorce the town from the gown. At UNILAG, we started from no casting, then we moved to narrow casting and from narrow casting, we are now at digital broadcasting. Of course, that is how it is supposed to be, because when we produced the students and gave them to the industry, they won’t have any problem. What the industry needs to do is to teach them the house style, manipulation of materials and newspaper design, as well as the ‘dos and don’ts’ of the publication house; while news writing for newspaper, television and radio would be what they already been taught in class. We quite agree that the quality and standard are not at the point where we want it to be presently. Again, we are working with the professionals from the industry who also participated in the design of the new curriculum. These include people from the Guild of Editors, NUJ, NIPR, APCON, NBC, BON, Nigerian Press Council, and all other regulators. We have been working on the curriculum for the past two years. I want to assure you that by the time we get the document out from the NUC, there will be great improvement in the standard and quality of Mass Communication programmes in the country. In the proposed curriculum, Journalism and Media Studies were combined, while others like Advertisement, Public Relations, among others stand as a separate course. Why is this so? Yes, some universities already have the Department of Mass Communication and Media Studies, and because they have the state-of-the-art facilities they want to go into Mass Communication through media studies like it is in the United Kingdom. Another thing is that when we were working on the curriculum, the Advertisement people said they wanted B.Sc Hons in Advertisement and Public Relations. But, we said no, that if we want to train our students they should specialise in either Advertising or Public Relations, and that we don’t want the two programmes to be combined. That is, advertising, broadcasting, public relations, etc should be separated. Again, at the verge of completing the curriculum, the UNESCO came in that we could also use media as a tool of development and that is why we have the Department of Media and Development. And, in view of this we agreed that Journalist and Media can be together. We are mostly concerned about the quality of the products and that is the reason we want to professionalise journalism like other professions as Law. In journalism we have everybody coming in, but we want the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to assist us in ensuring they do the right thing so that not everyone can call himself a journalist. NUJ should also see itself more as a professional and not as a union. The ideal is that before you can practise journalism you must have a B.Sc or Higher National Diploma (HND) in Journalism or Mass Communication and not a profession of all Jacks and Harry (a Jack of all trade) as it is presently. And again, those already practicing as a journalist in the radio, television and newspaper we can waive that for them, but they must have at least five years’ experience. When we are able to professionalise journalism and we have control, the NUC and NBTE will stop given approval for those mounting Mass Communication or Journalism without the required equipment and facilities. So, there is the urgent need for the industry and the institutions to work together to ensure quality and professionalism. How soon do you think NUC will give consent to the proposal? Well, the NUC with the Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Prof. Bogoro in attendance have bought in into the idea of the curriculum based on our discussion. And, by the time we made our presentations we were happy with the response of the NUC Executive Secretary, Prof. Abdullahi Rasheed, who promised us that it is going to be very soon. The Commission promised to call us again to come and dot the ‘is’ and cross the ‘ts’. The Executive Secretary of NUC had also practised journalism before with the New Nigerian Newspaper. Of course, he understood our language and he promised to do something before his tenure expired next year. Again, he promised that the committee will work with the NUC on the curriculum. The document was immediately passed to the NUC Quality Control Unit to start working on the curriculum. We are happy and the expectations are high. What is the position of the polytechnic sector and will the proposed curriculum rob off on the sector? Though, the polytechnic people did not join us, the bottom line is that we want to merge journalism with excellence. The regulatory agency for polytechnic and monotechnics education is the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE). Apparently, what we are trying to do is to bridge the dichotomy.