A Lagos based nonprofit organization, ‘Kick Against Human Trafficking and Human Rights Abuse Foundation’ (KAHTHRAF) has taken to major streets in Lagos State to sensitize residents on the dangers of human trafficking and plights of rescued survivors.
The campaign train was led by President of KAHTHAF, Barrister Ojay Akinwale. Aside from KAHTHRAF officials, others in the train are rescued survivors, officials of the National Agency For the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) and other stakeholders.
Akinwale said: “All hands must be on deck to fight the menace of human trafficking and look into the plights of rescued survivors.”
Akinwale said that the essence of the campaign was to prevail on government and relevant agencies to identify human trafficking routes and ensure they were blocked.
He added: “The focus of our campaign is to prevail on the government and relevant agencies to go beyond arrest and prosecution of human traffickers. We want them to also block all routes, which traffickers are using. There are identified routes in the northern parts of the country, where these youths are made to engage in perilous journey. We’re saying that government should rescue people before they go on these dangerous voyages by blocking the routes. We’re hoping to reach as many as 50,000 youths, in order to sensitise and prevent them from being trafficked. This move can go a long way to prevent youths from being trafficked and also reduce cases of human trafficking.”
The Lagos Zonal Commander, NAPTIP, Mr. Daniel Atokolo, while receiving the campaign train in his office said the Agency was not resting in the fight against human trafficking.
Atokolo said: “We’re identifying the routes, but it will interest you to know that Nigeria is a source, transit and destination country. This is due to our porous borders. We’re working with the relevant agencies and we urge Nigerians with relevant information to pass it across to us. Last year, we had 13 convictions and in one month, we’ve had seven convictions.”
The campaign train stopped at office of the All Progressives Congress (APC), gubernatorial candidate, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu.
When the campaign train visited the Lagos State Police Command, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police Mr. Edgal Imohimi was not on ground to receive them. But the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Chike Oti said the police in the state will give every support, to ensure human trafficking was checked.