An unconfirmed number of persons have been reportedly killed by gunmen suspected to be fulani herdsmen in Kaduna state. The incident took place in the early hours of Tuesday in a fresh attack on Karmai village in Maro Ward, Kajuru Local Government Area in the southern part of Kaduna state. The gunmen who were said to be in their hundreds had stormed the community early  Tuesday morning, shooting at anyone in sight. The bandits also set fires to houses, killing anyone that ran out of their homes. An eye witness who ran into the bush to escape the attack said the gunmen were in hundreds and dressed in military uniforms, pursuing people into the bush and residents scattered in different directions as they run for their dear lives. The eyewitness said the  villagers attempted to repelled the attackers initially , but could not withstand their fire power and had to run into the Bush. He told newsmen on phone from the area that “The gunmen came this morning, over hundred of them. They were fully dressed in military uniform. Initially our people attempted to repel them, but they couldn’t with stand the superior firepower of the fulani” he said. The source however said mobile police men have been drafted to the area, with the support of soldiers who are working to contain the attackers. He also said a vehicle belonging to the elite security outfit in the state, “Operation Yaki” the state government security outfit that conveyed the mobile police men to the area was burnt by the rampaging herdsmen. “Mobile policemen came but also retreated, one operation Yaki vehicle was burnt by the bandits as the mobile police tried to run for cover “Soldiers have been deployed to the community and are engaging the fulani. “Our people have been killed and our houses have been burnt. For now, it is difficult to say how many people have been killed until the situation is calm. The attack is believed to be a reprisal over the recent killing of Fulanis in the area. The Kaduna State Government has confirmed and Condemned the attack, calling on the people to remain calm. Government said it is saddened by the attack and called on the  communities not to resort to self help. A statement by Samuel Aruwan, spokesman to Governor Nasir el-Rufai, condemned the recourse to violence in the community. Aruwan said “The Kaduna State Government has today (Tuesday) received the sad news of renewed attacks in Kajuru and Kachia local government areas. “The government condemns this recourse to violence, and calls on all communities to support the efforts to restore calm in the area. “Today, the Kaduna State Government was briefed by security agencies of renewed attacks in Kajuru local government area, and in parts of neighboring Kachia LGA. “The Kaduna State Government has been assured that the security agencies are working assiduously to contain the situation. “The Government is saddened by these attacks, condemns the perpetrators and urges all residents of the area to support the security agencies in their efforts to protect communities” the statement said.