By the time you will be reading this this, the nation will be expecting the results of the outcome of voting done yesterday, Saturday. My prayer is, let the candidate whom God has chosen to make the economy better, win. And let the right people be elected into the legislative chambers. I don’t think a lot of Nigerians want to continue in what we’ve experienced in the last few years.  Our nation has been dubbed the ‘Poverty Capital of the World’ i.e. the highest number of poor people in the world is Nigerians. I do not think we want to remain there. The rates of job losses have skyrocketed. Inflation rate is high. Generally, the economy became very unfavourable to many out there; particularly, low income earners.  Some families can barely managed three square meals daily. Even those on regular salaries have been seen struggling financially over time; talk more of people without any tangible sources of income. One might need more than salary or one source of income to survive in this present clime.  Unpredictably, many pupils have been forced out of schools due to their inability to pay school fees. Some parents have suddenly developed high BP. Since a lot of us reside in flats, we assume everyone is fine, so, many are not aware of this development. Thank God for clothes and makeups – they do a good job in masking what we are actually going through.  A lady with three kids locked up her children at home for a whole session because her family could not meet up with school fees. She instructed them not to make any noise so that neighbours would not be aware they were out of school.  Lack of money in some homes has resurrected some forgotten quarrels between couples. Now, both parties suddenly always disagree; check the root of it – sometimes, it is lack of money. Some persons have started falling ill almost every month as a result of constant worrying; which is gradually degenerating into depression. The frustration level of an average Nigerian out there is saddening.  While I agree that the situation could have even been worse; however, the standard of living of many has dropped. On the whole, we have more people struggling to survive now than we have ever had. Do I have a witness?  Many organisations including churches, for the first time in a long while are feeling the bite; as cost of running the organisation has grown astronomically. Did I tell you that some members have reduced their tithes; while some have stopped paying it out rightly? As a result, restructuring and restrategizing is now the order of the day in the House of God. Recently, somewhere in Surulere, Lagos, belongings of a church were thrown out onto the street due to its failure to pay rent.
These and many more are the reality of many presently.  Why this preamble, you may want to ask?  I have good news: All these woes are about coming to an end. The famine in the land will soon become a thing of the past. After the wind, comes the rain. Nigeria will soon become a great nation.  I know you’ve heard this rhetoric many times. But I dare you to believe this this time. All the hardship, suffering, lack et al are about to become things of the past. Everything is about to become better.  We attract what we expect. We attract what we think. We possess what we confess. As Nigerians, we want a new Nigeria; therefore, we believe we are having a new Nigeria.  Whoever wins, irrespective of party, I pray his or her tenure will bring Nigeria and Nigerians to greater heights. May there be plenty in the land. May war cease this time. May a new Nigeria emerge.  There shall be plenty in the land. There shall be increase in the land. Nigeria shall take its rightful place. There will be a new Nigeria.  As regards the Presidential election, let the right man win.  There is a new Nigeria!