 The Supreme Court in a unanimous decision yesterday upheld the annulment of the governorship primaries conducted by a faction of the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, saying it is fraught with irregularities. The apex court however declined to dislodge the high court judgement that ab-initio barred the APC from conducting its Ward, Local Government and State congresses in Rivers State, pending the determination of a suit that was filed by 22 aggrieved chieftains of the party. The aggrieved party members had on May 11, 2018, secured an interim injunction from a High Court in Port Harcourt, which restrained the APC from going ahead with the indirect primaries that held on May 19, 20 and 21 respectively which produced Tonye Cole as governorship candidate and other candidates to represent the party in the 2019 general election. The APC had through its counsel, Lateef Fagbemi SAN prayed the Supreme Court to clear legal impediments against its list of candidates that contained Cole’s name. The five man panel of the court led by Justice Mohammad Dattijo however refused the application . The court rather reaffirmed its previous ruling that validated the high court judgement which barred APC from conducting primaries in Rivers. The court however evoked Section 22 of the Supreme Court Act which allows it to take over a matter and give final judgement on the appeal. In a lead judgment delivered by justice Sidi Bage, t he apex Court held that by virtue of Section 11(5) of the Appeal Court Rule, the appeal against the high court ruling having been withdrawn by the APC is tantounmount to outright dismissal. The court further held that since the Court of Appeal failed or evaded to make dismissal pronouncement for the said appeal, the Apex Court has no choice than to evoke section 22 of the Supreme Court act to assume jurisdiction over the case and decide on it. Meanwhile, the PDP in a statement commended the apex court for its courage in delivering the landmark judgment, which it said, has saved the nation from a serious constitutional crisis that could have marred the 2019 general elections. “The judgment of the Supreme Court serves as a huge lesson to politicians and political parties, to eschew impunity and always conduct their affairs in a manner that is in tandem with the provision of the law.”