By: Suleman Ndako. A broadcast by mischief-makers has been going around WhatsApp claiming that a secret committee was set up by Gov. Abubakar Bello with the agenda of reducing the number of Nupe and Gbagyi people in the civil service. This is of course false and dead ridiculous. Anybody who understands how the civil service operates knows that such a thing is impossible to execute. The system was built to ensure a balance that even the Governor himself cannot alter. The agenda of the people telling this blatant lie is to cause, and to profit from tribal strife between His Excellency and the Nupe and Gbagi people. It is painful and shameful that Niger state politics wants to be reduced to tribalism. Our people do not do tribal politics and clannish agendas. We are not known for that. Here we do not behave like other states who attack and kill each other because of tribe and politics. We respect the rights of all people who are of different tribe and faith to pursue their ambition in any field. We must not now allow politicians to divide us along tribal and religious lines. Religious or tribal discrimination is not our way in Niger state. Let us not allow wicked liars to make us start behaving so now. To set the record straight on this matter, Governor Lolo never tampers with civil service processes. Further, Lolo is a de-tribalized Nigerian who rewards only hard work and competence. He has nothing to gain from trying to shortchange Nupes or Gbayis who by the way are his friends and allies and even hold high sensitive offices in his government. One striking example to show this is the fact that the Head of Service, Mr. Yabagi Alhaji Sule, a Nupe man, recently had his stay extended by the Governor because of his (I.e Mr. Yabagi’s) competence and commitment to his duty. Another thing to remember is that the CoS, Hon. Bmitosahi, is Gbagi, and he is so very close to the Governor. What about the Ministry of Finance that is manned by Hon. Zakari Abubakar, who was made commissioner of finance from permanent secretary because of his competence and hard work a Nupe man. What about the recent promotions of Permanent Secretaries with a lot of them being Nupes? Another thing to consider to show that the mischief-makers are lying is the number of projects executed by Lolo in Zone A. I do not think any zone saw more projects. Let us for example look at the center of Nupe land, Bida where among other things Tokwosa-Bangaie Road was completed, where the Whole School Development Approach of Government Girls Secondary School, Bida was executed, where Electrification of Lanle-Etsu Woro Bida Kokogi and Shabafu Villages is a reality, where Drilling of Solar Powered Borehole was done in Dzuyagi, where Construction of Primary Healthcare Centre Bida/Masaba was achieved. Let us not forget the School of Nursing, Bida abandoned for 41 years until Lolo came on board. Now the school has been renovated and has been accredited with more courses included. Nor shall we forget the overhauling of water works of Bida among other projects too numerous to mention. Let me end by saying this: Nigerlites are wise and can never be blinded by tribal sentiments and lies. Those who are running against Lolo should come forward and tell us why Nigerlites should vote them. This nonsense of trying to paint Lolo as a tribalist has fallen flat and will never work. Why would a governor that you claim wants to remove Nupes from the civil service retain a Nupe man as Head of Service?