President Muhammadu Buhari, for the first time in his four-year tenure, appropriated N305 billion fuel subsidy in the 2019 budget. ADEOLA YUSUF examines the implications of this on the downstream oil market   We have earmarked N305 billion equivalent to one billion US dollars for under-recovery by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation on Premium Motor Spirit in 2019,” President Muhammadu Buhari in his budget presentation speech to a joint session of the National Assembly in Abuja recently. Obviously, he was aware this statement would stir controversy, hence, he added: “Let me take this opportunity to address and clarify the under-recoveries on petrol. In a period of economic challenges where purchasing power is weak, we must reduce some of the burden on Nigerians.” What made the inclusion of N305 billion fuel subsidy in the budget unique is that the Buhari administration had withdrawn subsidy on petrol in 2016, forcing independent oil marketers to pull out of importation of the product. The action by the marketers left NNPC as the sole importer of petrol, whose pump price remained capped at N145 per litre against a landing and supply cost, which at some point jumped to as high as N185/litre. Since then, the NNPC had been drawing from the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas dividend fund to cover the under-recoveries amounting to N40/litre in the importation of petrol. It’s a no for marketers Oil marketers and private importers in Nigeria, last Tuesday, however, demanded total liberalisation of the downstream sector as a major measure to end the culture of waste on fuel subsidy. They are fully aware that government had appropriated a whopping N305 billion for fuel subsidy in the 2019 budget but they unanimously declared that until the downstream sector of the oil sector is fully liberalised, the subsidy on imported refined products will continue to be a recurring factor in Nigeria’s energy mix. Tango over subsidy About 3,000 contract employees at depots, marine storage facilities and retail outlets of the major oil marketers in Nigeria are jittery, as their business ties between lenders and fuel marketers hit the record low. The marketers have been locking horns with government over fuel subsidy backlog of about N800 billion inherited by the present government. Because government is a continuum, this has been a burden to bear by the present government, which came to power with promise to end subsidy. The fear that this situation could lead to salary cut and outright loss of job, New Telegraph gathered last weekend, is rocking the downstream sector. The sector had earlier, been declared bearish by stakeholders. Executive Secretary of MOMAN, Clement Isong, told this newspaper on the sideline of a press conference in Lagos, that most of his members’ businesses are now running at loss. Consequently, the lenders, he said, are not in good relationship with marketers. The return on investment (RoI) in the downstream made with loan facilities from banks is very low, he said, stressing that the future of the downstream sector is very bleak if this economic situation is allowed to continue. A marine storage contractor for one of the major marketers, however, told our correspondent last weekend that contract staff bloc is unsettled by what is playing out. “Direct staff on the payroll of major marketers in Nigeria are well over 1, 500,” he said. “They are protected by unions in case of salary cut or outright job loss. Don’t forget that it is natural that the first set of workers that usually suffer from a situation like this are the contract staff. As we speak, over 3, 000 staff are in this category and everyone is jittery of likely unpleasant outcome of the situation.” Although MOMAN was silent on effects of their dipping ties with lenders, the association peopled by 11 Plc, Conoil, Forte Oil, MRS, OVH Energy and Total, validated the figure of staff strength as given by the contractor. MOMAN staff strength, a document by the association showed, comprises of 1, 500 direct staff, 3, 000 indirect staff and more than 100, 000 indirect staff. These members of staff are engaged with key assets of MOMAN across the country, including 23 depots nationwide, 2,454 retail outlets, 11 lubricant blending plants and seven marine storage/jetty installations. Other assets where employees are employed are; four bitumen plants, 511,480 MT gas storage facilities and 50 admin officers, 5, 182 drivers of trucks under contract and 3 LPG installations. Basis for protest Emphasising the need for government to have a re-think on the measure to deregulate and libralise the downstream, the stakeholders including MOMAN, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) and Depot And Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN), said that only this could pave the way for more attractive investments in the sector. The unfettered private sector participation and investment, they said in a statement, would be impossible with the current regime of highly regulated downstream market. Chief Executive Officer/Executive Secretary, MOMAN, Mr. Isong, said that the downstream petroleum industry regulations should be in line with international best practice. The implementation and compliance with these regulations, he said, would feature the concept of cost recovery and competitive returns on investment. All these would ensure the sustainability of the downstream petroleum industry, Isong said. “As the market players grow their businesses, they will increasingly become exposed to risk management challenges and will move their capital to areas where return matches the risks,” he said. “ We recommend that government should deregulate pump prices and focus on enforcing compliance with adequate regulations on health, safety, environment and quality.” Isong however, said that only total deregulation would save the situation. Contending that doing so will help attract more investments to the oil sector, he said only deregulation would encourage the establishment of private refineries and other related infrastructure in the country. The NNPC angle The President of MOMAN, Adetunji Oyebanji, stated that NNPC is now the major importer of fuel with over 90 per cent margin. The Corporation has been bearing the under recovery emanating from this. “NNPC did not ask anyone of us to stop importation of fuel, what we only found out is that the market is extremely unfavourable to fuel importation by private investors,” Oyabanji said. Under-recovery of premium motor spirit, PMS, also known as petrol, recently dropped to N20 per litre from over N80 in the last quarter of 2018. NNPC, which confirmed this in a document sighted by this newspaper, however, noted that the Federal Government was still committed to bearing the additional cost above the regulated price of N145 per litre. Protest across board Executive Secretary of DAPPMAN, Mr. Olufemi Adewole, added that the rise in the landing cost of petroleum products has renewed the calls for a full deregulation of the downstream sub-sector of the nation’s oil and gas industry. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Adewole said, has been the sole importer of petrol into the country for more than a year, as private oil marketers stopped importation due to shortage of foreign exchange and increase in crude oil prices. This has made the landing cost of the product higher than the official pump price of N145 per litre. “In the downstream sector, the NNPC continued to ensure increased premium motor spirit supply and effective distribution across the country. In pursuit of sustained seamless distribution of petroleum products and zero fuel queues across the nation, the Corporation has continued to maintain an eagle eye on the daily stock of PMS,” the Corporation said in its latest monthly report. “Federal Government had resorted to subsidy regime following an increase in the landing cost of petrol, with NNPC, which was responsible for about 90 per cent of the importation of the product, bearing the latest subsidy cost on behalf of government. Also, the National President of IPMAN, Mr. Chinedu Okoronkwo, said that total deregulation of the downstream sector would also attract more investment, generate more jobs and reduce the pressure on foreign reserves. He stressed the need for total deregulation and liberalization of the downstream market to address the persistent challenges in the oil and gas industry. He said that it is expected that deregulation of the downstream will lead to improved supply, competition and eventually drive down pump prices, as well as encourage investments in refineries and other parts of the downstream sector. The challenges with procuring forex significantly affected marketers’ ability to import petrol in recent times, Okoronkwo said, adding; “Thus, by liberalizing the market, the government expects importers to find ingenious ways to procure forex from autonomous sources and improve product availability. In defense of subsidy Since then, NNPC has been drawing from the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas dividend fund to cover the under-recoveries amounting to N40/litre in the importation of petrol. So far, NNPC has utilised 1.05 billion dollars or N320 billion of the fund to cover the under-recoveries, according to its Group Managing Director, Mr Maikanti Baru. However, this has drawn the anger of the Senate, which believes the oil company lacked the legal powers to unilaterally spend the money without appropriation by the National Assembly. According to analysts, the provision for subsidy in the 2019 budget proposal will lay to rest the disagreement between the lawmakers and the NNPC on the matter. Buhari said the problem with subsidy in the past was abuse and corruption, especially by independent oil marketers. “Today, the governmentowned NNPC is the sole importer of PMS, and therefore the under- recovery is from the NNPC trading account. This means the possibility of some oil marketers filing bogus claims is removed,” the president said. “We will continue working to bring it (subsidy) downward to ensure such revenue sources are freed up to meet the developmental needs of our people.” Last line There are no two ways to the issue of subsidy other than liberalisation of the market. This, which is expected to ventilate healthy competition, will end the burden subsidy inflicts on Nigeria’s economy.