The concessionaire of the Warri Port Terminal B, Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited, has taken possession of the terminal after the formal handing over by both the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). The Managing Director of the authority, Hadiza Bala-Usman and Director General of BPE, Mr. Alex Okoh, performed the ceremony. At the port, Usman, who was represented by the Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Dr. Sokonte Davies, pledged the support of NPA to the concessionaire. In a statement by SIFAX Corporate Affairs Manager, Muyiwa Akande, the managing director urged the host communities to cooperate with the company in order for it to operate successfully at the port. Also, Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, said the new business would not only stimulate economic activities in the local communities, but also contribute greatly to the country’s economic prosperity. Usman said: “It is our duty as NPA to achieve an efficient and profitable port management in the country. We are delighted that another milestone is recorded today with this hand over to Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited, the winner of the competitive bidding process for the terminal. “Rest assured that NPA will provide the necessary support to help you settle down and operate successfully. “Let me also use this opportunity to appeal to the host communities to support this company because the presence and smooth operations of this new business will greatly impact the local economy around here.” On his part, Okoh described the bidding process that led to the concession as transparent, adding that the best bidder eventually emerged as the winner. The director general urged the concessionaire to abide by the terms of the contract agreement while reiterating the stance of BPE to monitor the company’s operations for strict agreement compliance. “Port constitutes a strategic gateway to the country and the nation’s economic prosperity depends to a large extent on how efficient the maritime industry fares. That’s the major reason the industry has received a great attention from this administration. “We also recognised that port efficiency can best be achieved with the private sector involvement. That’s why we are delighted that this terminal will soon enjoy the level of efficiency that other concessioned terminals across the country have been exposed to over the years,” he said.