Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday called for cancellation of Saturday’s Presidential and the National Assembly elections in the state, citing multiple irregularities. The call came even as collation of results for the elections were still on going at various collation centres as at the time of filing this report. Addressing journalists in Enugu, alongside 10 National Assembly candidates, three senatorial and seven House of Representatives’ candidates and the governorship candidate of the party, Senator Ayogu Eze, Chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye, alleged that fake ad hoc staff were attached to polling units to direct unenlightened/uneducated voters to thumbprint/ vote for the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) candidates to the exclusion of APC’s. But in a reaction, spokesperson of PDP in the state, Nana Ogbodo, dismissed APC’s allegation as the figment of their imagination and called on both INEC and the general public to discountenance the allegations. The APC chieftain, who also submitted a petition to the Enugu State office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) demanding the cancelation of the polls, similarly said corps members posted to various polling units and voting points, allegedly received inducement from their opposing political party, the PDP, just as some security personnel were allegedly induced to compromise their duties in the election. APC contended that the results being collated and being expected to be submitted to INEC office do not represent the result of the election in the state. “We ultimately request your office to cancel the Presidential/ National Assembly Elections conducted in Enugu State on 23rd February, 2019 and prosecute according to the law, the aforementioned collaborators in the electoral irregularities/manipulation in Enugu State to wit: Corps members alongside with fake INEC staff adopted in the polling units and voting points, the SPOs, ward collation officers, local government collation officers and House of Reps/ Senatorial returning officers, among others,” the party chairman demanded. Nwoye also denied the insinuation in some quarters that APC in the state had an agreement with the PDP for APC to support other candidates of PDP in the National Assembly and gubernatorial elections, while PDP would support President Muhammadu Buhari’s reelection up to 25 per cent of votes in the state. He said there was no such agreement, adding that 25 per cent in any examination was a failure, and that APC was capable of winning the election in the state in a free and fair election. But while dismissing the allegations, PDP campaign organisation spokesperson, Ogbodo said: “All we can say is that those who fail to plan are inevitably planning to fail. Ask them how many places they stumped for campaigns in the run-up to the election. “You do not substitute sporadic press briefings for campaigns and expect to win. For a party that is so much mired in confusion, whereof no one knows who actually is the governorship candidate or even the state chairman, does it not amount wishful thinking to expect victory in any part of the state given that PDP under the dynamic leadership of Dr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has performed extraordinarily in the last three and half years in the state?” Nana urged APC members to get ready for the governorship and state assembly elections in two weeks’ time.