Hubby: My wife broke down when I told her the news  Make-up artists lament  Brides-to-be, make-up artists and others associated with weddings have all been impacted by the decision of INEC to shift the presidential and National Assembly elections to next week. A journalist with Champion newspaper, Kelechi Uzomah is devastated by the postponement, which according to him, is a big blow to his white and traditional wedding, both scheduled for next Saturday. “This is frustrating; I will have to start by printing another wedding card and going through the same process again. I started working on my guest list last year and sent out my invitations by the first and second week of January. Just yesterday I sent out a bulk sms to my guests reminding them that the wedding is just a week away on Saturday 23, February, 2019.  “So it came as a rude shock to me this morning when I learnt the Presidential and National Assembly elections have been shifted to next Saturday. And you know women, my wife is thoroughly devastated.” Uzomah continued: “My wife, Onyinyechi, is not taking the postponement too well. It is disheartening to have to run extra-budgetary expenses on things you assumed were done and taken care of. Annoying also is the great likelihood of not seeing all my guests on my wedding day as the shift would have altered their plans. As I speak to you, I’m yet to fix a date. We need to make some consultations before we choose a date that will be convenient for the greater majority.” Uzomah lamented that rescheduling the white and traditional wedding, which has become inevitable, may cost him another N1.5million. A Lagos-based business man, who had scheduled his wedding for this Saturday, said his wife broke down in tears when he broke the news to her. According to Mr Abiodun Sule, who said the news had caught them completely unawares, said he was the one who broke the news to his wife. “It was clear she hadn’t heard about the shift when I called her because I could hear from the tone of her voice, that she was so happy to receive my call early in the morning. But as soon as I broke the news to her she broke down wailing that it was supposed to be one of the most memorable days in her life has just been shattered! “She was just lamenting how she was going to inform everybody of the postponement and praying that the hall that we had already booked and paid for will still be available for them whenever they were able to settle on a new date,” he told Sunday Telegraph. For Sule, apart from the issue of the hall, their biggest headache was being able to get all the important family members agree on a new date which will not now clash with other pre-planned occasions. “You know as it is getting all family members to agree on a date. Now that we had settled for February 23, we will now have to start another round of discussions in order to agree on a new date,” said Sule, who told us that he had been on the telephone almost non-stop since morning trying to reach family members and friends. Another bride-to be, Miss Rita Osawende also lamented its impact on her marriage plans. In an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Benin, she said her marriage was shifted from February 16 to 23 because of the elections. Osawende said that all arrangements for her big day had been concluded for next week. “INEC please help me revisit this issue. “The original date was fixed for February 16, but as soon as I knew it was an election day, it was postponed to February 23rd. “What do I do; all arrangements have been made. “I have printed and distributed my invitation cards for the wedding. I am so confused,” she said. For a resident of Enugu, Wilson Uche, the postponement will be an extra cost on his wedding plans. Uche, who spoke to Sunday Telegraph, said although he had already fixed Sunday February 24 for his wedding, the postponement will all the same attract extra cost for him because it means his visiting guests will now have to arrive on Friday February 22, as against February 23, which means that he has to now pay for two nights of hotel accommodation instead of one. “Secondly, the guy that is supposed to bring the cake is supposed to bring it on Saturday, but I have agreed with him to bring it on Friday, travel back to go and vote on Saturday, then come back very early on Sunday for the wedding. “So it will cost me more money. People who are supposed to come on Saturday will now come on Friday and I will spend more money on hotel accommodation,” he said. For Izuchukwu Nwankpa, who had already fixed his wedding date to his heartthrob, Mareclina Dumebi for February 23, the news he woke up to meet on Saturday morning was a rude shock to him. According to his elder brother, Elochukwu, who spoke with our correspondent, everything have already been planned and they were truly shocked to now realise that this wedding will no longer hold on the date they had fixed. “I just spoke with my younger brother now and he is really sad. This sudden change is very painful to us as a family. Where do we even begin from? This is has affected us in a terrible way because everything has been previously arranged and some people that have been invited by sending out invitations and word of mouth; it will be difficult to contact them again to give a new date for the wedding. “We have not fixed any date yet because we are yet to conclude with the Reverend Father since we are Catholics. So when we conclude with him that is when we can come out with a new date for the wedding. I’ve just spoken with the groom, my younger brother, Izukukwu, who had contemplated fixing it for March 2 but I told him that may also not be feasible because the Reverend Father might even say he already fixed a program for that date also. So it is in the hands of the Reverend Father to give us a new date,” he lamented. For wedding vendors like the makeup artist, this is indeed a case of quick re-strategizing. Ijeoma, a young makeup artist had this to say: “Right now, I’m making plans on how to satisfy my clients who have already booked me for their wedding on the new election dates. I can’t be in two places at the same time. I was to do a job for a client today but the election has been postponed. I also have another one for next week. So both jobs might clash and I will have to forfeit one for the other. I may have to call in another makeup artist to help if it falls in like that but nothing concrete has been commutated to me as they have to go back and get new dates from their church. It is not funny all. This is affecting my livelihood and the government does not care about the youth at all,” she said. 