Currently, it will require building one million houses every year in the next 20 years to close the 17 million housing gap in the country, New Telegraph Besides, nothing less than N56 trillion would be needed to close Nigeria’s accommodation deficit. With little resources of government competing for many projects, private sector operators are taking it upon themselves to assist authorities in addressing some of these challenges. Taking the bull by the horns, Managing Director, Lifepage, Mr. Oladipo Clement, said his real estate and investment company, had plans to help government and assist Nigerians in the low-income group to solve their housing problems ranging from lack of access to quality and affordable houses, lack of access to buildable lands, and long -term financing issues among others. Speaking with New Telegraph, the managing director of Lifepage, disclosed that the company had acquired large expanse of serviced land to the tune of 800 acres in different parts of the country to help home seekers. According to him, strategies have been on ground to launch housing investment fund for home seekers to bail them out of homelessness. Clement added that the firm had also embarked on development of 20 estates across Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Ogun and Oyo states for the purpose of constructing one million housing units overtime to address housing shortfall among Nigerians. He explained that in Abuja, the firm had over 60 acres of land; Lagos -100 acres; Ogun – 400 acres and River state – 30 acres. Some of these estates include Olive Court/Estate in Afam -Porthacourt; Itori-Ewekori; Ifo phase I & II; Ofada-Owode; Gwagwalada-Abuja; and Agbara Extention, Esepe. Others are Nature’s Ville Estate, Ofada-Owode; Zeder Pavillion, Ibeju-Lekki, Festac, Lekki- Ajah, Lakowe and Millennium Estate, Gbagada-Lagos. The Lifepage boss assured people that proper documentations of the estates covered individuals’ survey and deed of assignments. Besides, he hinted that the firm had also embarked on housing development in slump areas of the city as a way of urban renegeneration.