Last week, the House of Representatives approved across board a N30,000 minimum wage for workers in Nigeria. PHILIP NYAM gives a graphic account of how the issue was resolved  The House of Representatives a week ago approved a N30,000 minimum wage for workers in both the federal and state level as well as the organised private sector. The approval was given at the plenary after the adoption of the report of the ad hoc committee on a bill for an Act to repeal the National Minimum wage act for workers led by Deputy Speaker, Hon. Lasun Yusuf. The N30,000 approved across board differs from the recommendations of the National Council of State, which had fixed N30,000 for federal workers and N27,000 for state and private sector workers.
In the approved bill, the House jerked the initial penalty of N5,000 recommended against defaulting employers/firms to N75,000, with an additional penalty not exceeding N10,000 for each day the offence continues. While giving a synopsis of the bill, chairman of the ad hoc committee, Hon. Lasun Yusuf explained that the bill did not cover employers whose staff strength was below 25.
But raising a point of order, the House Majority leader, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, suggested that the bill should take effect from six months after assent. Although, other lawmakers opposed the prayers of the House leader, arguing that the bill should take immediate effect as soon as the president signs it into law, the Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, held a different opinion, noting that with the absence of appropriation, the bill however cannot be implemented.
The Chairman, House committee on rules and business, Hon. Edward Pwajok (PDP, Plateau), however saved the day when he moved for an amendment that the bill becomes effective from the date it is assented to. It was unanimously adopted. The House is to harmonize with its counterpart in the senate for onward transmission to the president for assent. Public hearing:
Before the passage of the N30,000 minimum wage, the House had two days earlier conducted a public hearing where all relevant stakeholders were given opportunity to present their perspectives. While declaring the event opened, Dogara declared that the N30,000 minimum wage being canvassed could barely feed a small family unit. He said it was only when workers are dignified with wages that can provide them minimum comfort that their productivity level will increase. The speaker noted that the two focal points that must be given priority by government are poverty and corruption because while the former, caused mainly by underemployment and unemployment, is a threat to democracy, the latter fundamentally undermines democratic institutions and values.
Dogara, therefore, proposed for a more reasonable living wage that will not only provide for basic needs of the workers but also enable them to make provisions for themselves that will lift them out of poverty and lead to a reduction in corruption. He explained that poverty as a threat to democracy is evident in vote-buying and in the use of money to compromise electoral and security officials during elections, thereby subverting the will of the people on account of the sense of despondency and powerlessness that their lack breeds, and therefore, making them ever ready tools in the hands of tyrants and demagogues, who in the course of history, have always found it easy to mobilise for the purposes of subverting democratic Institutions.
According to him, “While we are not oblivious of the current economic downturn and the dwindling revenue of government, we cannot also be blind to the fact that all economic indices indicate that even the N30,000 Minimum Wage that Labour is asking for is not enough to sustain a small family unit. The nation may not have enough to satisfy the minimum demands of the Nigerian worker, but as a nation, we need to set our economic priorities right and ensure that we dignify our workers by making allowance for their minimum comfort. I know of no alternative if we hope to up the productivity level of our workforce.
“It is said that the promise of democracy is life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. According to Thomas Jefferson, these are God given rights. Therefore, it is not enough to merely be alive and free, one must also be engaged in the pursuit of happiness in order to enjoy the promise of democracy. If that is the case, can we say that Nigerian workers are enjoying the promise of democracy? Can we say that millions of our youth who roam the streets daily in search of non-existing jobs, are enjoying the promise of democracy?
“I have said before that poverty is the greatest threat to our democracy. Those who doubted me have seen that threat manifest itself in vote-buying and in the use of money to compromise electoral and security officials during elections. On account of the sense of despondency and powerlessness that poverty breeds amongst the poor, the poor have and will always remain ever ready tools in the hands of tyrants and demagogues, who in the course of history, have always found it easy to mobilise for the purposes of subverting democratic Institutions. Since underemployment and unemployment are bedmates of poverty, eliminating them must be the focal point of government’s policies.
“The next evil is corruption. It is not in doubt that corruption fundamentally undermines democratic institutions and values. Corruption affects the poor most because they depend more on government for support. How then do we fight corruption from the roots rather than dealing with its symptoms as is currently the case? The answer is for us to begin to pay workers living wage not minimum wage.
“When we do not pay living wage, we cannot tame corruption. When workers take home is not enough to take them home, the temptation for them to cut corners in order to get home will always be there. Workers keep and process our national wealth and the only way to insulate them from the temptation to want to help themselves to it, is to ensure they are well remunerated. It is not in contention that it is a mean job to muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain. Leaving workers to their temptations is dangerous unless we can show that they are greater than Oscar Wilde, who in his vintage wicked wit, proclaimed, ‘I can resist everything except temptation”.
Continuing, Dogara explained that “we cannot pay living wage in a nation that represents a major promise for economic prosperity in the world speaks to the bane of our leadership. In order to reverse these tragic narratives, we must invest in proactive and innovative leadership not the reactive leadership model that we practiced all this while. Reality is, I am not a believer in minimum wage although it is a constitutional issue and the practice in many nations. I believe in living wage and wish the framers of our Constitution had provided for a living wage instead. No wonder the UN Covenant on economic, social and cultural rights speaks to rights to a living wage in Article 7(A)2 as incorporated in International Labour Organisation document.”
He promised that the House of Representatives was going to give an accelerated consideration to the very crucial bill to forestall the threat by the labour force to go on strike and because it is long overdue since the current National Minimum Wage, which was fixed in 2011, has become unrealistic due to supervening developments in the nation. From stakeholders:
President of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Mr. Ayuba Wabba, who also presented the position of the Trade Union Congress(TUC), a sister trade centre, had rejected the Bill forwarded by the executive arm of government, saying N27,000 was unacceptable by the labour. He said labour was showing understanding by accepting N30,000 from the initial N65,500, it proposed at the inception of a new minimum wage dialogue in 2016. Besides opting for N30,000 against N27,000 approved by the Council of State and contained in the executive bill, the NLC President also rejected the five-year-review period and recommended four years.
Wabba also demanded that the threshold of 25 workers ‘only’ be discarded so that all workers in any employment in the country, whether public or private, provided he or she works for a wage should be a beneficiary of the new N30,000 minimum wage. Labour also faulted the absolute powers granted the minister in the current Bill on subsequent reviews.
According to Wabba any future review must be by the tripartite body with equal members. He said that the minister can only make recommendations to the President from the inputs and agreements reached by the tripartite or social body, and not solely by the Minister of Labour. Organised labour also rejected fines to be paid by defaulting employers, insisting on N75,000 as against N5,000. The labour union leader said that the N5,000 fine was too minimal considering the weighty infraction of violating the minimum wage law. He stated that every position canvassed by labour is not new to both the federal, states and representatives of the organised private sector in the tripartite committee, adding that labour agitations are contained in the report of the tripartite committee, agreed upon and submitted to government which ought to be binding on the tripartite body in line with extant provision of International Labour Organisation’s convention.
Wabba dismissed insinuations that any wage increase will increase inflation, pointing that inflation had long being in our economy, after the increase in petroleum pump price and electricity tariff. He noted that on the contrary, wage increase will boost the economy by increasing the purchasing powers of the 11 million workers, which constitute only 5 per cent of the total population.
“New wage will improve economy, discourage social upheavals school fees will be paid’ he added, pleading with governors, the Federal Government to pay the new wage, which 30 governors of the 36 had agreed to pay during consultations and the tripartite level. Government position:
While presenting the position of the Federal Government, the Minister for Finance, Hajia Zainab Ahmed explained that government was working hard to ensure the new minimum wage which figures are contained in the 2019 budget is implemented. She said this is notwithstanding shortfalls in revenue expectation of government.
According to her, government was spending almost 70 per cent of its revenue on personnel cost, which is not too good for development. “We have revenue problem in the country and are working hard with collecting agencies, like FIRS Customs, to improve collectibles.” She disclosed for instance that government was spending close to N2 trillion annually on personnel /recurrent costs. “Buhari wants to pay a credible minimum wage but wants to ensure everybody, including the states has the ability to pay,” she noted
In his presentation, chairman of the Nigerian Governors Forum and Zamfara State governor, Abdulaziz Yari, insisted that states could only be buoyant to pay the new minimum wage when the current revenue formulae is reviewed in their favor. He disclosed that it was only when the revenue allocation is restructured and states get long loan payment moratorium, that they can have adequate funds, including those to cushion increased workers’ wages. He appealed to labour to understand with the governors whom he said have the welfare of their state workers at heart but constrained by sustainable funding.
Also speaking, the Minister for Labour and Productivity, Senator Chris Ngige, urged the Parliament to be circumspect in approving a new minimum wage, insisting that what was presented to them by government was in the best interest of the country and stakeholders. He chronicled the history of the new minimum wage, which according to him was as a result of the increase in pump price of petrol from N85 to N145.
Ngige said the wage proposal was a cushioning mechanism arising from the effects of the pump price.
It was the report from this public hearing that was consequently presented by the plenary of the House and approved.