The Kaduna State Government has confirmed the killing of 66 persons in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state. The government condemned the killing and warned all communities against instigating attacks or reprisals. A government statement signed by Samuel Aruwan, the spokesperson of Governor Nasir El-Rufai, on Friday said that security agencies have been deployed to the area, while arrests have been made. Mr Aruwan did not state if the violence is election-related. He, however, said investigations have commenced. Read Mr Aruwan’s statement below. “Security agencies today reported the recovery of 66 bodies that were killed in attacks by criminal elements on various dispersed hamlets in the Maro Gida and Iri axis of Kajuru LGA. The settlements affected include Ruga Bahago, Ruga Daku, Ruga Ori, Ruga Haruna, Ruga Yukka Abubakar, Ruga Duni Kadiri, Ruga Shewuka and Ruga Shuaibu Yau. “Among the victims were 22 children and 12 women. Four wounded persons rescued by the security agencies are now receiving medical attention. “Government condemns the attacks and commiserates with the families of the victims. Security agencies have been deployed to the area and arrests have been made. Government urges community, traditional and religious leaders in the area to encourage residents to avoid any reprisal attacks and to leave the matter in the hands of the security and law enforcement agencies. The killings are being investigated and residents are assured that indicted persons will be prosecuted. “Residents of Kaduna State are enjoined to uphold peace and harmony, shun violence and allow the elections to be held in an atmosphere of calm. Any suspicious activity should be reported to the security agencies in person or through the following lines: 09034000060 and 08170189999.” Several persons have been confirmed dead and dozens injured as locals in Kasuwan Magani, in Kajuru local government area of Kaduna state and Hausa youths clashed over girlfriends. The crisis which started at about 10 Am on Monday left churches, mosque and shops razed down. Residents of the area could not confirm the… In "News" Several persons have been killed with scores injured in a communal clash between communities in Kaduna and Plateau states. The incident took place in Kigam village of Kauru local government area of Kaduna state and a community in Bassa local government area of Plateau state on Monday night. Worried by… In "Top Stories" Several people were feared killed while scores of others were injured when Muslims and Christians clashed yesterday at Kasuwan Magani community in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The state government yesterday evening imposed a 24-hour curfew on Kasuwan Magani community. The clash was said to have started about… In "Metro and Crime"