About 70 per cent of Nigerians live in poverty; hence out-of-pocket payments for healthcare could make households and individuals incur catastrophic health expenditure. Initiating health insurance would ensure financial protection for pregnant women, spreading risks and pooling funds that would make antenatal affordable and accessible, reports APPOLONIA ADEYEMI  An adage that pregnancy is not a disease has become common saying in this environment. Going by the way nature programmed pregnancy; it’s a normal part of life, a period of around forty weeks that most women go through at least once to procreate. Although, delivery of new born in which most pregnancies culminate is usually safe and normal, some pregnancies and delivery become complicated ending up in morbidity and mortality. This is the situation that makes access of antenatal care for pregnant women a necessity. Previous studies show that although some pregnancies would be normal yielding safe deliveries and healthy mothers, some pregnancies due to complications also need to go through specialist professional care to achieve the same level of safety. Antenatal care, also known as prenatal care, is a type of preventive healthcare. Its goal is to provide regular check-ups that allow doctors or midwives to treat and prevent potential health problems throughout the course of the pregnancy and to promote healthy lifestyles that benefit both mother and child. In spite of the safety of mothers and babies that often come with antenatal care, the cost of accessing the ‘life-saving’ procedure has made majority of poor citizens in the country to ditch it. While some pregnant women resort to accessing care from quarks some deliberately request family members to take the delivery as a ploy to prevent the payment of hospital bill that go with antenatal care in health facilities. It has also been ascertained that the major reason why many poor women and their families shun antenatal care is the mode of payment: an out—of-pocket system of payment, which has been categorised as a barrier to accessing healthcare globally.
According to a study published in the Lancet, there is an over-reliance on out-of-pocket payments in the country. The study showed that about 70 per cent of Nigerians live in poverty; hence out-of-pocket payments could make households and individuals incur catastrophic health expenditure and this could exacerbate the level of poverty for affected persons. To address this problem of out-of-pocket payment, found to be a barrier preventing many poor pregnant women from accessing antenatal care, the Oyo State Government recently took the bull by the horns with the initiation of the Oyo State Health Insurance Agency (OYSHIA). This may be just a measure from the south west; it is in line with the global strategy to achieve Universal Health Coverage (UHC).  The UHC means that all people and communities can use the promotive, preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative health services they need, of sufficient quality to be effective, while also ensuring that the use of these services do not expose the user to financial hardship. At least half of the world’s population still do not have full coverage of essential health services and based on this, all United Nations (UN) member states have agreed to try to achieve UHC by 2030, as part of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
It was on this basis that the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) established under Act 35 of 1999, was established by the Federal Government to provide easy access to healthcare for all Nigerians at an affordable cost through various prepayment systems. However, 14 years after, less than five per cent of Nigerians are covered by NHIS.  On its part, established 18 months ago, OYSHIA is improving health service utilisation and providing financial protection against huge medical bills, according to Dr. Olusola Akande, executive secretary of OYSHIA.
He explained that the scheme in Oyo State would protect citizens of Oyo State from financial hazard, spreads the risk among every enrolee, pool the resources and consequently make it available to enrolees that become ill and need treatment.
The good news about OYSHIA is that the services have been made compulsory for all citizens of Oyo State. Akande, said the scheme was targeting 450,000 residents of the state with two per cent of its consolidated fund from the state internal revenue.  According to him, under two years, the scheme has made remarkable achievements, which includes over 80,000 enrolees from 33 local government areas (LGAs), 350 vaginal deliveries and 78 caesarian sessions, over 10,000 children under five years and pregnant women covered, creating employment opportunities for residents, upgrading three fully accredited PHCs and 7seveb others at various stages of completion, as well as institutionalisation of engagement platforms for various stakeholders.  Using services from OYSHIA to bridge the gap created by the out-of-pocket payment by pregnant women is necessitated going by deaths of infants in the state. Dr. Adebola O. Hassan, UNICEF’s Health Specialist, said Oyo State is the third largest contributor of new born mortality rate in the whole of the south west.  Explaining why new born in the state were dying, she said although, there was a total of 33 LGAs and 351 wards in the state, overwhelming majority of the nurses and midwives were in urban LGAs and there was no single doctor in three LGAs: Egbeda, Ona Ara, Ogo Oluwa. In addition, she lamented that many citizens demonstrated poor health seeking behaviour, facility utilisation rate for children under five years across all LGAs, adding that only 10 LGAs have more than one per cent utilisation rate.  With the introduction of OYSHIA, Hassan said access to healthcare would be made convenient for citizens because of the mode of payment. Apart from making the services mandatory for citizens, accessing health care is also perceived as the human right of people in Oyo State.
Speaking further, Akande said 100,000 civil servants had been captured, but regretted that despite the success so far, there were still challenges such as negative beliefs, attitudes and customs of people on insurance policies, adverse selection and attitude of health-workers. Other challenges are enrollees, subsidy and cross-subsidy for the vulnerable groups and the poor, limited resources for advocacy, publicity and enlightenment, and inadequate and untrained manpower logistics.  He disclosed that even farmers and others who cannot afford to pay the N8, 000 were encouraged to pay with their farm produce to the agency in lieu of cash. “Many people who would have loved to enrol in our health insurance programme but lack the financial capacity to pay the premium voluntarily agreed to give us yams and palm oil and other farm produce in lieu of cash to be paid for the premium”, he stated.  “In the agency, we have set up a marketing section that is helping us to sell the yams and palm oil and other farm produce and when we sell them, we help the owners to keep the money until it is enough to pay the premium and enrol them.”
Akande said the goal of health insurance was to provide quality healthcare services for the people of the state without experiencing catastrophic health expenditure. He expressed worry that many people were still not aware of the activities of OYSHIA and sought the support of the media to propagate the importance of health insurance to the people so that more people would enrol. Obstetricians and Gynaecologists on Friday called for increased attendance to Antenatal care by pregnant women to reduce the high rate of infant and maternal mortality in the country. The experts made the call at a presentation of four books entitled ' 'Step by Step Approach to Obstetrics and Gynaecological Ultrasonography,' … In "Health" Women in Keke makeri community in Kaduna State, have attributed their poor attendance of antenatal care to lack of health facilities in their community. The women also decried lack of access road to the nearest Primary Health Center which is about 40 kilometres from the village. Some of the… In "Mum & Parenting" Antenatal care (ANC) coverage in the African region, including Nigeria, remains poor; that is occasioned by low awareness, out-of-pocket payment for care, belief in home birth, as well the traditional delivery system, among others. Experts say embracing ANC will reduce deaths of mothers and babies. APPOLONI A ADEYEMI reports  … In "Health"