Imo is comparatively, a peaceful state. That notwithstanding, Ohaji, Oguta and Oru West council areas in the state seem to be evolving into the most volatile federal constituency in Imo State. STEVE UZOECHI reports  Beyond communal disputes, undue peer rivalry, youth restiveness, cult clashes, oil agitations and mob actions that have been recorded in the oil producing federal constituency in Imo State, the heart-rending incident of a Thursday, January 24, 2019 in the port community of Ossemotor in Oguta council area of Imo State, seems to outweigh every other atrocity in the books. It defames the people of the area and reminds humanity of the capacity of man to perpetrate evil and widen the circle of pain and misery. About a fortnight ago, the country home of Prince Henry Okafor, the House of Representative candidate for the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the Ohaji Egbema-Oguta-Oru West federal constituency race, was demolished and reduced to rubbles under very questionable circumstances. About nine policemen, a bailiff, thugs and operators of heavy-duty machines that were used for the demolition had been arrested, yet no government agency has owned up the action, or stepped forward to accept responsibility that it directed the demolition of Okafor’s home. The 30 policemen from Zone 9 police command, Umuahia; the bus load of thugs; the excavator and a low bed truck that were used to execute the demolition did not fall from the sky. Apparently, somebody had planned and funded the entire operation and when it drew an unprecedented outrage from the public, the mastermind disappeared from the picture and conveniently stayed in the shadows. Like one who had a premonition of evil, former Inspector General of Police, Mike Okiro, who is from the area, had invited all the major candidates of the key political parties in the federal constituency to a peace meeting. He urged them to come to the table and discuss modalities to douse the growing tension in their communities and device means to ensure that politicians do not burn down their communities in their desperation to win elections.
Okiro had proposed a peace pact among the contestants, advising that there would always be life after election. One Kingsley Uju was duly invited for the peace meeting but he failed to attend. He neither conveyed his regrets nor sent any representative. Both Henry Okafor and Goodluck Opiah who are running for the same Ohaji Egbema-Oguta-Oru West federal House of Representatives seat with Kingsley Uju were in attendance and all blamed Uju for the rising tension in the federal constituency. Okafor alleged that Uju was stockpiling arms for the election and if he was not made to be a part of the peace pact, every contestant may have to resort to self-help to protect their communities. Opiah also alleged that Uju was deploying the instruments of violence and intimidation for the election and noted that he would have to be resisted as it was alien to the constituency. Few weeks after the peace meeting, before the peace pact would have been signed by all the political contenders, Prince Henry Okafor’s home was demolished under very questionable circumstance.
Narrating his ordeal, Okafor said that the invasion was politically motivated and aimed at distracting him from pursuing his National Assembly aspiration and that those who masterminded the dastardly act had underrated his resilience and doggedness which saw him through the dangerous conditions of the Sahara Desert and Mediterranean Sea. Okafor stressed that he didn’t have any court case with anybody and had never been invited for any criminal or civil matter in court before the invasion of his home. According to him: “I had left my home for Owerri the previous night. So, when I heard that some policemen were in my house, I started driving back home to know why. The youths of my community from different villages had mobilized and called to tell me that they wanted to confront the invaders comprising about 30 policemen, a bus load of thugs, an excavator and a low bed truck. But I dissuaded them and urged restraint until I am able to ascertain their mission. “The next thing I heard was that the excavator they came with had broken through my fence and gained access to my compound and started demolishing my home. As soon as I arrived, I saw two Hilux vans but one of the Hilux vans fled on sighting me but the youths managed to stop one carrying about nine policemen. I asked to know why they demolished my home and they said they were executing a court order. “They said the court order was from Supreme Court, but I queried: a case concerning me went from a High Court, Appeal Court and to Supreme Court without my knowledge? Where has it happened before?” “Understanding the youths of my community, the action was so provocative that if I had not returned in time, the youths may have killed the remaining policemen but I pleaded with them and with the support of our monarch, we managed to drive the culprits to the king’s palace for their safety. Ironically, neither the police nor the man who claimed to be a court bailiff had the said court order that empowered them to demolish my house. And when asked if he remembered the content of the said court order, the bailiff said he could not remember the content of the order while the Police team leader said he did not sight the order. But we know somebody funded the movement of about 30 policemen from Umuahia, Abia State to Ossemotor, Imo State; somebody hired the excavator for N270,000 and somebody hired the low-bed truck that conveyed the excavator. We shall get to the root of this matter.” But Hon. Kingsley Uju, in a swift reaction, dismissed Okafor’s assertions as untrue and alleged that Okafor was rewriting the narrative for political convenience. While condemning the demolition of Okafor’s home and calling for an investigation into the incident, Uju said he had no hand in the demolition of Okafor’s home and had no need to wish Okafor evil. In a statement issued by his spokesman, Mr. Joe Chimezie, the former Deputy Chief of Staff to Governor Okorocha said: “It has become expediently necessary that the public should   be fed with real facts, especially now we are in the heat of campaigns, rather than politicizing every of our activities for cheap political goal. “The truth of the matter from reliable security information gathered is that, Mr. Henry Okafor has been having a running land dispute with the people of Oguta Ameshi which has lingered for over 20 years in various courts, even long before Hon. Uju Kingsley thought of joining politics. “Hon. Uju Kingsley, while condemning the demolition of the building in such a brazen manner, has no hand in any land dispute between Mr. Henry Okafor and the people of Oguta Ameshi as alleged in a video by Henry Okafor. If Mr. Henry Okafor is having any communal issue with the people of Oguta, he should go and settle it without dragging Hon. Uju Kingsley into it.” The wreckage of the Police Hilux truck, the excavator and the low bed truck burnt by the angry youths of Ossemotor still litter the premises of Prince Henry Okafor like abandoned relics of war.