…victim hospitalised …we’re hunting for attackers, says FPRO  Outrage has greeted a video circulating on social media, where a lady was stripped by some men for allegedly stealing a phone.
The men also rubbed pepper in the lady’s private parts as punishment. The horrific video, which started circulating on Monday, has caused an outrage among Nigerians. The three-minute video shows the girl being brutally stripped by two men, while she screamed and begged. One of the men pushed her down to the ground, while another hurried to the scene, clutching pepper. On sighting the pepper, the lady got up and tried to run, but was ruthlessly pushed to ground.
She was wrestled to the ground by one of the men, wearing a camouflage shirt on blue jeans. The man grabbed her two legs and pulled them wide apart, while another threw the pepper into her private parts. The hurled pepper fell short of hitting her private part, thus the man in camouflage picked the pepper, crushed it inside her private part and ruthlessly pushed it further into her. She screamed and cried, but the men refused to release her. Even as she was shouting in pains and crying, the men hurled questions at her like missiles: “Where is the phone? Where did you keep it?”
She cried: “I didn’t take any phone. Jesus! I didn’t take any phone. Jesus, I’m dead. I’m dead.” As the pepper began to take effect, she jumped from one place to another, while the men keep questioning her. When she continued to cry and fan her private parts with her hand, one of them threatened to bring another bunch of pepper, causing another shriek of fear from her. It has been discovered that the incident occurred in Benin, Edo State. This was even as League of Patriotic Lawyers gave the Edo State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, 24 hours to unmask those behind the barbaric act. The Chairman of the League, Mr. Abubakar Yesufu, also urged the Department of State Services (DSS) to be involved in the investigation.  The Force Public Relations Officer (FPPRO), Frank Mba, said that investigation into the incident had already commenced.
He said: “But we need more information from members of the public.” On different social media platforms, Nigerians, who took out time to comment on the incident, raged against the men, stressing that the lady should have been handed over to the nearest police station, not dehumanised. A female focused group, Report Women Network Group (ReWon), has also condemned the action of the men. In a statement made available to our media house, it said: “ReWon, as a group, which believes in women being treated fairly at all levels, finds this video repulsive and disturbing. These men, who took on the role of judge and jury, should have taken the lady to the nearest police station, rather than dehumanised her in such a manner. “ReWon therefore urges the relevant authorities, especially the Nigeria Police to do everything within the ambit of the law to arrest these men and bring them to book.” It was also learnt that the identity of the victim had been known and that she is presently at a hospital (name withheld), receiving treatment.
This is not the first time women have been dehumanised, using pepper. Ajoke Agomo and her two daughters were tortured with pepper for allegedly stealing pepper at the Oba Morufu International Market in Ejigbo, Lagos on February 11, 2013. Ten persons, nine men and a woman, were arrested for the crime. The three women were beaten up, stripped and pepper rubbed over their bodies by the suspects who were members of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC). The suspects rubbed pepper, mixed with local gin, on the victims’ faces and private parts. The attackers then used canes to flog them. They were subjected to hours of torture and the incident videotaped by one of the suspects.