Southern Sun Ikoyi ended last year on a high note, attracting appreciable attention from the public and patronage from its various clients. Thanks to its status as one of the leading hotels in the city, with sophisticated facilities and dedicated services. This year, the hotel is continuing on that wave length as it has continued to attract both business travellers and leisure seekers to its serenading cocoon as a result of its highly improved services. It invested in the renewal and upgrade of its facilities last year especially in its meeting facilities. It also did same to its service offerings with the introduction of Nigerian ethnic cuisines (Themed nights) and welcoming of a new executive chef. This was a game changer for the hotel as it not only succeeded in keeping its loyal patrons but won more to its growing high profile of guests. Also, it attracted public acclaim as the improvement to its culinary offerings and the introduction of Nigerian ethnic cuisines were highly commended, making the hotel a must visit for the best of culinary treats of all kinds. In terms of facilities, the hotel parades quite a number of high quality amenities that are accentuated by its opulence and fascinating ambience, with an inviting façade exuding a serenading appeal the moment one walks through the door to the warm embrace of stylishly designed and fitted facilities all around. Rooms In terms of its accommodation, it features about 195 rooms of different categories, with each stylishly and elegantly fitted and furniture with sophisticated amenities for the comfort and relaxation of guests. These include: Flat screen TV with multiple satellite channels, refrigerator/mini – bar, work desk and chair, tea/coffee making machine, and ensuite bathroom with fresh toiletries. It also boasts a special lounge known as Ninth Floor Lounge, which is a uniquely created small private area exclusively for long-stay and suite residents. The lounge features complimentary snacks and drinks, newspapers, and TV with 24-hour news and sports. It’s a quiet place for making connections or for some out-of-the-office downtime. Wellness The hotel offers quality wellness facilities and services with a swimming pool and fully equipped fitness centre as well as sauna and steam rooms. Meetings and events In terms of conferences and business es of all sorts, the hotel offers premium facilities and services. One is spoilt for choice with eight meeting and event venues, all fitted to the hilt with modern and technology drive amenities inclusive of AV technology, audio, visual and Wi Fi as well as a dedicated and experienced team to cater for your event while it also offers different packages with attractive incentives. A fully equipped business centre is available to cater to all your secretariat services. Dining/wining Its fine dining and wining offers is one that set the hotel apart from others in the city. This service comes highly recommended to both in – house and walk – in guests. On the menu list are varieties of continental and African dishes, which are regularly updated to meet with the ever growing global culinary trend. It last year upgraded it African menu list with the introduction of Nigerian Ethnic Dishes, a theme night that comes with rare and exciting local delicacies from different parts of the country. This offering is expected to get merrier and colourful this year with a new head chef that is expected to inspire with his wealth of expertise in the culinary world. You can also savour rich and fine winery from its stylishly fitted bar and lounge section, which is stocked with wide selection of drinks ranging from wine, brandy, champagne, cocktail to beverage. Southern Sun Ikoyi has been awarded its second prestigious 2018 Certificate of Excellence Hall of Fame recognition by world acclaimed Trip Advisor. The hotel has consecutively won the Trip Advisor Certificate for Excellence over the last couple of years, spanning the period of 2010 to 2015. The award is in… In "Travel and Tourism" Southern Sun Ikoyi is giving its guests and visitors exciting and bumper season’s offerings as part of it effort to end the year on high and treat patrons to the best of the hotel’s hospitality and leisure packages. This was disclosed at the end of this year’s Corporate VIP Cocktail… In "Travel and Tourism" It was a delightsome night with rich treats as a couple of business executives, professionals and others exchanged friendly banters and click glasses. Perhaps toasting to successful business deals, prospects and linkages notched up in the course of the exciting and pleasant night. The occasion was the mid-year quarterly corporate… In "Travel and Tourism"