Few days after elders and leaders of ethnic nationalities endorsed the presidential candidature of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the youth wings of the ethnic nationalities have also endorsed the former vice president. The ethnic nationalities youths of Arewa, Ohanaeze, Ijaw, Efik, Yoruba People’s Assembly and others, also dared the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the use of mobile phones at the voting and collation centres. INEC had said that mobile phones would not be allowed at the voting and collation centres. The youths were represented by their leaders, Yerima Shettima, the Arewa Youth Consultative Council; Maxi Okechukwu Isinguzoro, the Ohanaeze Youth Council; Aremo Oladotun Hassan, the Yoruba Council of Youths; Comrade Oweilam Pereotubo, the Ijaw Youth Council; Comrade Enoh Marcus, the Anioma Youth Council, and Comrade Bassey Henshaw, President, Efik Youths Worldwide, among others. Pereotubo, who called on INEC to ensure the conduct of a free and fair poll, stated that the youth would deploy use of their mobile phones to monitor the general elections across the country. According to him, the use of the phones would assist to make sure that nobody rigs the elections. Endorsing the candidature of Atiku for President, he said: “We expect nothing short of free, fair and nonviolent elections in 2019 and we have since commenced the mobilization of our members to support only a presidential candidate genuinely concerned about restructuring of our nation. “We will work handin- hand with all relevant stakeholders to continue to enlighten them on the need to ensure that only a candidate who can get Nigeria back on its track of socio-economic and political spheres, a leader who is very conversant with what our national economy needs and the link with good governance is elected. “We will continue to stand by any leader who understands the link between national development and harmonious blending of the diverse ethnic nationalities across the various geo-political zones of the country. We dare say that the best leader for Nigeria as we approach yet another general election is the type who has enormous acceptability across all the geopolitical zones. “As members of the Nigerian Ethnic Nationalities Youth Leaders Forum, we are aware of the deep-rooted fears amongst the electorate regarding the high risk of manipulation of the election by vested interests within the corridors of power in collaboration with their foot soldiers. This fear became bare faced with the open attempt to emasculate the judiciary.”