The President Muhammadu Buhari, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, on Tuesday, while campaigning in  Ekiti state said he assumed power in 2005 as against May 29, 2015. In a video trending on social media, Mr Buhari, while addressing the people said, “We are very conscious of the promises we made when we were coming in 2005” instead of 2015.  Recall that the President had earlier said he was sworn into office on the 19th of May, 2015 while campaigning in Kogi state. Also, the president goofed in Calabar when he raised the hand of the wrong person as gubernatorial candidate of the party in Cross River state. Instead of raising the hand of the APC gubernatorial candidate, Senator John Owan-Enoh, Buhari raised the hand of acting Chairman of APC in the state, Sir John Ochala. While on 17th January at the Presidential campaign rally at Warri, Delta State, he said: “I am handing over this flag of honour to our presidential candidate”. When the man to his left corrected him, saying “gubernatorial”, Buhari responded with “to our senatorial candidate” Again, the man corrected him, saying “gubernatorial”. This time, Buhari said: “governortorial candidate”. Also, on Thursday, January 24th the president made another gaffe during the presidential campaign rally in Onitsha, Anambra state when he referred to “South-Eastern States” as “East Central State”. Less than a day after he goofed about the time he assumed office, President Muhamadu Buhari, has yet again made another gaffe during the presidential rally in Warri, Delta state earlier today. Recall that on Wednesday, during the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential campaign rally in Lokoja, Kogi state, the… In "News" Buhari, Saraki, Atiku, Dankwambo favoured   It is yet another season of political prophecies and the country’s ‘men of God’, as usual, have been making earth-shaking declarations. Since December 2016, the pastors and prophets have up their game by broadcasting their prophecies for the coming 2019 elections year. ISIOMA MADIKE… In "Investigation" ...says Saraki, Kwankwaso, Tambuwal, Ortom can’t stop him     President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday boasted that he will win the 2019 presidential election by a landslide despite recent defections of some chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The president, who gave… In "News"