Since her break into the Nigerian theatre scene decades ago, with her twin sister, she has consistently shown her versatility as an artiste. From stage to the screen, her career has been marked with exceptional performances and brilliance. Reminiscing on the journey so far, Kehinde, in this interview with TONY OKUYEME, explains why she cannot do without dance. She also shares her experience dancing for Sunny Ade, Ebenezer Obey and others  Did you actually set out to be an artiste? I can say that we’ve been dancing since when we don’t even know being an artiste was all about. As twins, we love to dance; we love to make people happy. It makes us happy when we dance and people are happy. We love to dance. The sense of joy, the sense of fulfillment when you listen to a beat, when you listen to a rhythm, and you just know what movement, what steps fit into those movements. When you dance, your body speaks the language of the sound; your body speaks the rhythm of the drums and lyrics of the music. It is about interpretation. I think it started for us when we were very young, because as a twin in the Yoruba culture, it is believed that you must either take the twins round to dance because they love to dance and stuff like that. But my mum decided earlier on that she was not going to us and go round the place dancing. Rather, she brought music to us. So, every of our birthdays, we had this local musicians come to our house, they would play music, my mum would send us out to go and dance. And we would dance and dance till we were tired. So, that became the tradition that every of our birthday this musician would come to our house, and we would dance and dance, delighted, happy. We danced till we could dance till we were tired. So, that was it. Every year, we’ve been dancing since that time.  At what stage did you decide to take it as a profession? When it comes to professional theatre it started with my twin sister. I used to work in the geological petroleum consultant company; or rather, I would say that it started in primary school, Marywood Girls Primary School, Ebute Metta, Lagos. We used to have a headmistress then, her name was Mrs. Jones. And all of a sudden, maybe because they believe that twins can dance, they put us in the cultural troupe. And you will find out that there is nothing they do in our school, as long as it cultural, they will involve me and my sister. And then they realized that we have a knack for it; we were good at it. Be it plays, be it dance, be it music, we were always there. And this dovetails to our secondary school as well. We found ourselves in the literary and debating society; we were always involved in all the dramas, cultural dances, everything, with Mr. Ayo Akpata then. So, it was just a foregone conclusion, as far as I am concerned, that we finished and then go to the theatre, because some of our plays were done at the theatre from school. The National Theatre was booked for one of our plays, The Prodigal Son, which because it was a girls’ school, was just performed by just we girls. And since it was a biblical thing, it was performed at the National Theatre. And all our parents and guardians, everybody was invited. That was how we fell in love with the National Theatre. So, when we finished secondary school, we just went straight to the theatre. But heading to the National Theatre didn’t just come about like that. We were working with a geological petroleum consultant company, and then my twin sister joined the African Heritage Troupe. I used to go and see her there every time, and before you knew it was I became interested. The performance started like that. So, one day I saw them rehearsing a play and I was curious, and wanted to join them; I want to act too. But my twin sister told me about the procedure, that I have to go for the audition first, and if they picked me, fine. The rest, they say, is history. I went for the audition of Mr. Ekpeyong’s production of The Tree That Refused to Die by Preer Munier. And lo and behold, I got my first major lead role. I have never looked back since.  What were the challenges? There were challenges, of course, in the early stages, because unlike now, if you want to be recognized as an artiste, you have to be educated, and it is not just secondary school education. We realised that no matter how good you are; if they call for an audition, no matter how early you come for that audition, and no matter how late the theatre art graduates come for the audition, they are the first to be auditioned, because then they placed value on education. Talent was second; education first. Then we realized that we were being passed over because we were not as educated as these other talents. It was something that was kind of disheartening. So, when we realized that for you to get a head in the theatre, you must be educated; at least, more than a secondary school leaving certificate. I remember, when we went for an audition at Pec Theatre, Onikan, then, the audition was supposed to be for 9am, we were there as early as 7am. All the other professionals who were educated did not get there until past 8am or past 9am. And when they ask for people to write down their names, the first thing they would ask you is about your educational qualification. They were calling people based on their educational qualification. And then you find out that the roles that should have been given to you would be given to someone else. You have to prove yourself in terms of your ability, to get back those roles. So we decided that is that is the case, we should go educate ourselves as well. That was why we went to Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), where we studied Drama and Music. It gave a sense of pride and joy that yes, we have the talent and the education. It has been wonderful; it’s been fantastic; unlike today when whether you are educated or not, they deal only on talent. Yes, talent is all well and good, but talent without formal education is a little bit stunted. To really grow and develop in the art, you really need to have formal education. It does necessarily have to be a university education. You can have a formal education, training under, like we used to have then, Pec Repertory Theatre with Chuck Mike; and all the other theatre houses as well. You need to have a formal training on what it is to be an artiste.   You have had performances with Sunny Ade and Ebenezer Obey. What were your experiences? Yes, I have performed with King Sunny Ade as a dancer. We were the opening act for Chief Ebenezer Obey at his 2013 world tour. For every show, for every gig, for every performance the experience is different. What you take away from it is different, all unique in their own ways. When I went on my first world tour with Prof. Wole Soyinka, with his his play, King Babu, where I played multiple roles – eight different characters – including singer and dancer, for me it was fulfilling. King Babu was at least a 100-man cast play, but only about 15 of us did the play. Every one of us played different roles. Those are one of my best moments on stage. It was fulfilling. It showcased my being a total theatre artiste. I sang, I danced, and I acted. It was something that utilized everything that I represent. It shows that we are total theatre people.
I must say that I am at home with every aspect of the theatre, stage or screen – acting, dance and singing.
I am waiting for opportunities that allow me to touch the young ones positively.  Why have both of you not considered releasing an album? It is in the works. I did say we went on tour doing our own music; we went on tour performing our own thing.
It is one thing to be a dancer; it is another thing to be an artiste. But you see we have always been culturally inclined. So, the album will come.  Have you been embarrassed? It is hard to embarrass me. Maybe the only embarrassment I would is when my twin sister does something wrong, especially when we were growing up, and you thing I am the one and even when I try to explain to you, you don’t believe me. It can be embarrassing but as we grew older we got used to it.