Chief Emmanuel Okumagba is the President-General, Okere Urhobo Kingdom and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Delta State, in this interview with OLA JAMES advises Nigerians against thuggery and any act capable of truncating the on-going general elections,  What is your impression about the forthcoming general election? In fact, I am a member of PDP, and, we are prepared to face all opposition in a fair and violence- free manner.  Both presidential candidates are from the Fulani ethnic nationality, do you see Alhaji Atiku Abubakar wrestling power from the incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari? The masses have seen the works of President Buhari and Delta State is a typical example. We don’t know what is happening here because federal presence is not felt. So, what will inform Deltans voting for him (Buhari) but Nigeria politics is full of violence. However, we are using this medium to appeal to Nigerians that violence never pay and Nigerians should not allow any politician from whatever axis to lure them into violence because through violence many people lost their lives, and those who sent them will enjoy the benefits for which the people have fought for and died. So, people must learn that they should not allow themselves to be used dogs. Thuggery does not pay because it is an issue for kill or be killed and if you kill, can you make a strand of the man’s hair? I see no reason why we should go into violence and get killed because there is no profit there. So, we must eschew violence so that Nigerians will vote according to their conscience. Unfortunately, the issues that bedeviled this nation are numerous. Any leader who believes that we must get away from the old system of balancing an authority is living in the cloud. I recall in those days, when services chiefs were to be appointed, it was based on geographical indices; there was principle of geographical spread as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution, but these days the spread is no more there, they are tailored towards a particular region of the country to get us anywhere. The fact is that when you push a people to the wall, and they have nowhere to run through, they turn back at you. Nigerians should not be given any opportunity to bounce back at any leader because it is not egalitarian in nature; we hear of federal character, which is non-existence in Nigeria even in this present dispensation, it is a smoke screen; there have to be a balance in line with the Federal Character principle. We have not gotten exposed to the fact that anybody can be anything. That is why our democracy seems to be somehow. If I may ask, why did President Muhammadu Buhari pick Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as Vice President? And, why did Atiku Abubakar pick Peter Obi as Vice President? It is because we have not reached a stage where we can pick someone based on quality, and not ethnic or religious sentiments that are so embedded in our ways today. For me that approach of trying to balance the factors that have always divided us, religion and ethnicity. We must create a balance of these factors and all have to do with the sense of belonging. One thing we are quick to assume in our society here, though if it is in America, Britain or Germany, that cannot happen. For instance, America became independent in 1776 while Nigeria is just 1960 here. Whereas America wobbled, stumbled before they stabilized, America, the great powers who are foremost in the world, even got independence from Britain. So why do you want to compare us with this very developed and advance countries? In fact, sometimes I imagine our low mentality of why are we not like America, Britain or Germany? This is because of the kind of development we are having is questionable. The method of governance in our country must change and, so, our people are now learning approach to our culture and the rest. It is a pity that the white man’s culture is progressive and we cannot reach their level over night that is the problem with us. Our mentality is that because it has worked over there why should it not work here now? Not even why should it not work but why not now? In the last presidential election in America, it was widely believed that Russia hacked into their electoral system and America did not take it lightly, but if it was in Nigeria, nobody will raise their eyebrows. America, I tell you has a reputation and the name of their country means much to them. So, we must be wary of the kind of approach we make in our political system; we must grow and develop but the most important thing is that we embrace peace at all times.  What is your view on our democratic system?
Yes, democracy is governance by the majority but we must not say that the minority should not say: the minority must have their say while the majority will have their way by consensus. The problem is that we are too comfortable with rigging and that has destroyed the fabric of our oneness and not until we do things right, Nigeria will continue to be dissipating energy on electoral fraud that does no one any good.   How can you asses President Buhari’s government in almost four years? I cannot say that Buhari is a corrupt man. I do not have the justifiable indices to say so, but, Buhari is very nepotic. I do not see him as a corrupt man because he is fighting against those who stole our money, who carting our money away. The area I am against him is that he is a man who turns away his eyes from those who are close to him that are corrupt. This idea of selective persecution is not too good.  Those who are corrupt should not get away with persecution and, his (Buhari) system should not be selective; it should not be based on dealing in power. It is a wrong notion and the law should take its cause on anyone found to be corrupt. But when there is a preponderance of appointment coming from a particular region then, he is giving them advantage to be more equipped financially and other wise. In fact, I was going to exonerate Buhari as a military general but then, they created a lot of confusion and problems for this country. They have a lopsided creation of states and local government in four years, none of our person is appointed a minister. For instance, in education, financial clout and the rest the Urhobo feel a sense of neglect and marginalisation in every sense of it.   Are you saying that Nigeria’s politics is full of violence, thuggery and manipulation?
Yes, that is true. I am using this medium to appeal to Nigerians not to engage in violence because it never pays; that Nigerians should not allow any politician to lure them into violence because it is destructive and many lives have been lost, so people must learn not to allow themselves to be used as thugs.   The APC Chairman has boasted that his party will take over Delta, Akwa-Ibom and Rivers states. How do you react to this assumption?
If he is so desperate about it, then he needs to be examined, because for any educated person who has risen to the position of a labour leader and governor of a state, and he wants to win by all means, that will tell you the nature of person he is and he should not be taken seriously.
However, I chose not to believe that he vowed to take the three states by all means…that means he wants to win by all means, hook or crook, and that is not what we want in this country. Again, that is a show of irresponsibility. I mean it is a slap on the face of Nigerians. However, it is a bad statement.