Ex-international Duke Udi has described the health certificate scandal involving the Super Eagles goalkeeper Francis Uzoho in Cyprus as an international embarrassment to Nigeria. Uzoho was suspended and fined by the Cyprus Football Association who upheld the appeal filed by Apollon Limasol that the Eagles’ goalie played his debut match for Anorthosis Famagusta with an invalid health certificate procured for him without going through necessary medical. Udi said it was unfortunate that a big player from Nigeria could get involved in such scandal. He said: “In Europe, there are rules which they follow religiously and no matter who you are, they apply the sanction if you flout the law. In Nigeria, a superstar can commit an offence and still get away with it, you can’t do that in countries like that; they will even punish you harder because you are a role model to many young ones. When you do the wrong thing, they believe you are trying to incite the young people to do the same, so they deal with you seriously. “There are many Africans who flouted the law and went to jail in Europe; and what happened to Uzoho is an embarrassment to the country, because there is no way they will mention his case without saying he is from Nigeria. “My advice to the younger ones is that they have to be careful regarding who takes them to Europe; many people are ready to do anything to make money and get those kids in trouble.” The former Shooting Stars of Ibadan midfielder said Uzoho must not allow his predicament in Cyprus to affect his performance when he plays for Nigeria in African Cup of Nations qualifying match against Seychelles and international friendly match with Egypt next month. “What happened to him in Cyprus is not our business; our concern is that he should do his best when he plays for the national team. He is a professional player and he knows that there are times you go through a bad patch but that should not stop you from doing your best on the job. So, I expect him to prove that to us when he is called upon to represent his country,” he said.