Six soldiers have been killed in an exchange of fire with suspected bandits in Bini Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State. This incident also led to the death of 37 bandits and rescue of 80 kidnapped, the acting information officer of Operation Saharan Daji, Major Clement Abiade, revealed in a statement. According to the statement issued on Monday, the soldiers were returning to their base after a long-range patrol before the incident occurred. Major Abiade disclosed that the victims comprise men, women and children, rescued inside Dumburum Forest during the mop-up operations conducted by troops between February 4 and 14. READ ALSO: Troops Kill 21 Suspected Bandits, Rescue 89 Victims In Zamfara He also revealed that six suspected bandits and their allies were arrested while several weapons, ammunition and rustled cattle were recovered from their camps. The information officer recalled that bandits had carried out a series of attacks on communities in Zamfara last year, leaving hundreds of innocent people killed and many injured, while some were kidnapped. He, however, said, “The intensity and redoubled efforts in the conduct of military activities in the past months seem to be yielding tremendous successes, leading to the killing of some of the bandits, recovery of guns, ammunition and rustled cattle”. Troops of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD) fighting banditry in Zamfara State have killed 58 bandits and rescued 75 kidnapped victims. The Acting Force Information Officer, Operation Sharan Daji, Major Clement K. Abiade, said in a statement that on Sunday, troops came into contact with a large gang of bandits, armed… In "Metro and Crime" Troops of Operation Sharan Daji (OPSD) fighting banditry have killed 21 bandits, captured 17 and rescued 89 kidnapped victims in Zamfara State. The acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, said in a statement said on January 22, troops on clearance operation in Gando Forest came encountered a large… In "Metro and Crime" Nigerian troops are reported to have killed 58 armed bandits in Zamfara state, but lost two soldiers in the operation, tagged, “Saharan Daji’’. The operation took place at Dumburum and Gando forests of the state, the operation’s Acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade’s statement said in Sokoto. He said… In "News"