There are indications that export of processed cashew will fetch Nigeria N972 billion ($2.7 billion) from the projected 270,000 tons by the end of this year, New Telegraph has learnt. The amount will be achievable if government keeps to its promise of ensuring that cashew nuts must be processed before export. It was learnt that the Federal Government is assisting the exporters in processing the nuts following its rejection by the Vietnamese buyers. Last year, some 37,000 tons cashew nuts were tampered with and pilfered on the port roads and buyers subsequently rejected them. Some of the nuts, it was gathered, had gone bad by the time they get to the ports for shipment to various destinations. The nuts are being used as versatile industrial raw material for phenolic resins, friction powder for the automotive industry and wine. Also, it was gathered that poor handling of cashew production and defective export packaging processes have made the country to be losing N177 billion ($491.6 million) annually. Worried by the drop in quality and loss in revenue, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Audu Ogbeh, had said that the country would start processing its raw cashew nuts for export by 2019. He explained that the value of a ton of processed cashew nuts was $10,000, while the raw cashew nut is sold for $1,200. The minister noted that it would be better to process the nuts for export instead of exporting raw cashew nuts in order to benefit from the high cost of cashew. Already, Nigeria, which the sixth largest producer and exporter of cashew in the world has dropped to number 10 in the global market. The top 10 countries that produce cashew nuts in order of decreasing importance are: Nigeria, India, Viet Nam, Côte D’Ivoire, Benin, Philippines, Guinea-Bissau, Indonesia, Brazil and Burkina Faso. Trouble started in 2017 when cashew nuts exports dropped from N13.5 billion to N3 billion in the second quarter of the year when Vietnamese and foreign produce merchants, who engage in speculative buying in the Nigerian started the rejection. But the Deputy Executive Secretary, Federation of Agricultural Commodity Associations of Nigeria (FACAN), Mr. Peter Bakare, had said that the price volatility was due to lack of conducive business environment. He complained that over 67,000 tons of cashews were still lying in the warehouse in Nigeria. Nigeria recorded 74 per cent drop in exports of cashew nuts in shell, according to the third quarter foreign trade report of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). In the second quarter of 2018, Nigeria recorded an export value of N38.49 billion as against N9.85 billion in the third quarter of 2018 Cashew nuts in shell, which has topped Nigeria’s agricultural exports for years, accounted for about N9.8 billion in the third quarter of 2018 compared to about N38.4 billion in the second quarter of the same year. The nuts were exported mainly to Vietnam and India in values worth N4.8 billion and N4.7 billion respectively. In the last three years, the country has exported some unprocessed cashew nut valued at N292.7billion ($813.05million) to United States, Vietnam, India, Brazil and Europe.