Kano State Governor Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has appealed to ‘would be losers of the Presidential, and National Assembly Election’s to accept defeats in good faith. Ganduje who cast his votes at about 9.30am at Ganduje Cikin Gari Pooling Unit 008 said he is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that APC would wins the Presidential Elections and all the National Assembly seats. However he appealed to would be losers without mentioning names of any party to accept defeats in good faith, adding that there was great improvement of INEC voting system of register, thumbprint and cast your votes. Our Correspondent report that some unspecified political agents at Bichi local government area of Kano outskirts Kano of about 60 KLM engaged in votes buying bit were disrupted by other party agents who started filming them. The situations became tense when the culprits engaged those agents in a fiasco resulting to the destruction of their Cameras. The Intervention of the Security brought the situations under control and some unspecified number of political actors were arrested. However in most areas in Kano Metropolis Elections materials were not distributed on time and a situations that resulted to elections commencing mates, while voters were seen in very disturbing moods. In Jobe Village of Tofa local government area of Kano voters were seen acting in a more friendly family like voting, and when asked a voter Bako Danbaba after casting his votes at Joben Kudu polling unit said they agreed upon themselves to eschew violence and allowed everyone to choose who he/She wants. A House of Representatives member representing Rimin Gado, Dawakin Tofa and Tofa Federal Constituency Tijjani Abdulkadir Jobe said he took his times to ensure that he enlightened his peoples against violence. Our Correspondent who covered Kano Central and Kano North Senatorial Districts reports that there was massive turn out of voters as early as 6am, however voting in general term started in most areas behind scheduled. The State Commissioner for Local governments Murtala Sule Garo, said reports across the Kano 44 local government areas he received indicate non violence in the whole of Kano. Sule Garo attributed the peaceful conduct of the elections to awareness campaigns embarked upon by his government of Ganduje who took longer time propagating non violence exercise among Kano Peoples. Telegraph observed that there was massive deployment of heavy armed combine Military, Police and paramilitary Personnel across the ancient City. While all the exist entrance of Kano from Kano North to Kano South witnessed heavy Checkpoints of Only Armed Military Personnels.