Mr Abubakar Musa, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in charge of Sokoto State, says 450 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) stationed at Gandi town in Raba Local Government Area of Sokoto State are expected to vote in the 2019 general elections. He told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Sokoto that the IDPs, mostly from Tabanni and some from Kursa, Wawarna and other surrounding villages affected by bandits’ attacks were accommodated at the Gandi camp, pending when arrangements would be made for them to return. He added that two polling booths were created for the displaced persons at the IDPs camp in Gandi town. The REC said necessary arrangements, including transportation of electoral materials from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) have been concluded by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Sokoto State. He said the materials were at the 23 local government areas of the state and that before down, the materials and personnel would reach respective polling units as required by law. Musa expressed INEC’s confidence in the security arrangements on ground and urged political players to abide by the regulations. He said that most anomalies on election disruption and other unlikely happenings emanete from participating politicians. He underscored the importance of peaceful coexistence in the society, as well as peaceful conduct of elections, noting that INEC would ensure credible and transparent elections. According to him, members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) that voluntarily want to participate in the elections ad hoc duties along with others have been posted accordingly and measures are in place to tackle any unforseen situations across the state. Meanwhile, Mr Umar Bala, the newly deployed Commandant of Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC),  said no fewer than 1,200 personnel were deployed for election duties in Sokoto State. Bala said 12 monitoring teams and 19 operational vehicles would oversee the polls, while trained armed men would be stationed to await distress calls. He said synergy with leading police officials was intact, adding that NSCDC enjoyed cordial relationship with residents of Sokoto State, including traditional leaders. (NAN) Gunmen have killed about 32 people at Kabanni village, Gandi District and nearby communities in Rabah Local Government Area of Sokoto State. A witness, Malam Isa Kabanni, said the gunmen killed scores of people including children, women and the village head. Kabanni said the attackers invaded the village with vehicles… In "Metro and Crime" About 34 women have been delivered of babies in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Camp in Gandi town of Rabah Local Government Area of Sokoto State. The Camp Coordinator, Malam Lawal MaiDoki, disclosed this while distributing relief materials and food stuffs to 10 women who were recently delivered of babies in… In "Metro and Crime" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Benue state said the commission has registered 2, 480,131 eligible voters to vote in this year's general elections in the state. Resident Electoral Commissioner of the commission, Dr. Nentawe Yilwatda who disclosed at a news conference in Makurdi, the state capital also said… In "News Around Nigeria"