●Battle brews for 178 gas flare sites  Over 1,007 parties are vying to secure bids and contracts in the on-going Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP), New Telegraph has learnt. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), which gave this hint in a document sighted by this newspaper, said that as at two weeks ago, 700 bids were received for the approximately 178 gas flare sites spread across Nigeria’s Niger Delta region.  Reaffirming the shift in the deadline to Thursday February 28, 2019, as opposed to the initial submission date of Sunday, January 20, 2019, the oil industry regulator noted that the Financial Proposals would be opened only for those Bidders whose Technical and Commercial Proposals have passed.  “Each Applicant is required to complete and submit a SOQ and pay the SOQ submission fee by 17:00 hours West Africa time on or before the SOQ submission deadline of Thursday, 28th February, 2019 in order to qualify for consideration as a Qualified Applicant (QA) and NOT a day after,” the DPR warned. Each applicant, the agency added, “is responsible for preparing and delivering its SOQ in the required format.”  According to the DPR’s document, the bidders must “note that the submission date for the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP) Statement of Qualification (SOQ) has been extended to Thursday February 28, 2019 as opposed to the initial submission date of Sunday, January 20, 2019.”  As at the last two weeks, over 700 plus interested parties, DPR said, had “registered on the NGFCP portal to bid and jostle for the approximately 178 gas flare sites spread across Nigeria’s Niger Delta region. “After the close of the submission of the SOQs’, there will be an opening ceremony for the SOQs’ after which the Proposals Evaluation Committee (PEC) duly constituted by the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources for the purpose of evaluating the SOQs presented by the Applicants to determine Qualified Applicant status and evaluating the Proposals to determine those applicants whether they have been awarded the Qualified Applicant (QA) status.”  Besides, it said: “A list of the selected Qualified Applicants will be published on the NGFCP Portal. Only QAs will be issued the Request for Proposal (RfP) package. “The PEC will carry out an evaluation of the Technical and Commercial Proposal on a strictly pass/ fail basis. The Financial Proposals will be opened only for those Bidders whose Technical and Commercial Proposals have passed.”  The DPR had earlier announced that it generated over N747 billion from the issuance of licences/ granting of approval and royalties paid by oil and gas companies operating in the country in 2017. The feat represented about 82 per cent of the department’s target. The agency also stated in a report that the department granted approval for 16 new field development plans (FDP) in 2017, which will increase the nation’s Oil and Gas production by 560,463 barrels of oil per day (BOPD) when fully commissioned. According to the report, the department renewed 19 expired leases in 2017 to enhance upstream investment influx and accelerate oil and gas reserves and production growth. “We actively support the implementation of a major gas commercialization policy tagged National Gas Commercialization Programme, which seeks to create regulatory framework to facilitate gas flare monetization to end gas flaring by 2020, the report stated.  ‘ ’DPR generat e d N747,614,888,823.04 as revenue for the Federal Government, which is 82 per cent of the departments’ target. DPR also said that Early Lease Renewal Programme was initiated to accelerate revenue generation for government to fund national budget and incentivize upstream investments by ensuring security of tenure given the long gestation and payback period for oil and gas investments. “We have so far processed the renewal of about 25 blocks, which have combined revenue stream of about $1billion.”  According to the study, the department facilitated improved LPG penetration with local consumption growing from 390,000 metric tonnes MT to 470,000 MT with a potential to hit the 500,000 MT milestone.  “We increased National Gas reserve base from 192.07 trillion cubic feet (TCF) to 198.74 TCF representing a 3.5 per cent increase over the preceding year,” added the report. “We increased operator compliance on National Production Monitoring System (NPMS) by commencing the upgrade of the NPMS to real-time data capture in 26 crude oil terminal locations thereby improving the efficiency in the administration of crude oil export and production accounting.  “We intensified operational surveillance of the downstream sector thereby significantly reducing the cases of product adulteration, diversion and pump manipulation in retail outlets across Nigeria.  “In addition, adoption of the Smart Inspector application empowers field staff with mobile technology to help them get field inspection work done faster.”  The department also revised and issued new DPR Procedure Guide for the Determination of Quantity and Quality of Petroleum and Petroleum Products in Nigeria. “We have issued ten licenses/ approvals for development of Gas production and processing facilities that culminated in the commencement of operation (license to operate) of 2.5 MTPA fertilizer plant,” DPR said.