Ahead of the general elections scheduled for February 16 and March 2, a major shake-up has hit the Command structure of the Nigeria Police, with the deployment of Commissioners to the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The deployment followed the Acting Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu’s recommendation, which was approved by the Police Service Commission (PSC).  The disclosure was made in a statement yesterday by the PSC’s Head of Press and Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani. Among the states that now have new CPs, are Lagos, Kwara, and Rivers, where Mr. Mu’azu Zubairu, Egbetokun Kayode, and Belel Usman, are to assume duties.  According to Ani, “The PSC has approved the appointment and subsequent deployment of 37 Command Commissioners of Police for the 36 states of the federation and the FCT, Abuja, following the recommendation of the acting Inspector-General of Police.”  The Commissioners are: Buba Sanusi, Katsina; Mohammed Wakili, Kano; Rabiu Ladodo, Jigawa State; Ahmed Iliyasu, Ogun; Mu’azu Zubairu, Lagos; Ibrahim Sabo, Niger; Alkassam Sanusi, Taraba; Garba M. Mukaddas, Adamawa; Omololu Bishi, Benue; Bola Longe, Nassarawa; Isaac Akinmoyede, Plateau; Odumosu Hakeem, Edo; Olushola David, Bayelsa; Adeleke Yinka, Delta; Austin Iwero Agbonlahor, Cross River; Bashir Makama, Akwa Ibom; Awosola Awotunde, Ebonyi; Belel Usman, Rivers; Bello Makwashi, Gombe and Abdulrahman Ahmed, Kaduna.  Others are: Bala Ciroma, FCT; Egbetokun Kayode, Kwara; Hakeem Busari, Kogi; Asuquo Amba, Ekiti; Galadanchi Dasuki, Imo; Suleiman Balarabe, Enugu; Dandaura Mustapha, Anambra; Etim Ene Okon, Abia; Ibrahim Kaoje, Sokoto; Celestine Okoye, Zamfara; Garba Danjuma, Kebbi; Abiodun Ige, Osun; Undie Adie, Ondo; Olukolu Shina, Oyo; Ali Janga, Bauchi; Damian Chukwu, Borno State and Sumonu Abdulmalik, Yobe. The commissioners are expected to proceed immediately to their new Commands ahead of the 2019 general elections.  The chairman of the commission, Alhaji Musiliu Smith, has charged them to quickly settle at their new posts and ensure that the forthcoming general elections in their various Commands are peaceful, free, fair and transparent. “Our nation cannot afford any disruption of the elections anywhere as the world is looking up to Nigeria for a proof that its democracy has continued to mature. “The commission’s approval has been conveyed to the acting Inspector General of Police for implementation,” Smith said. Meanwhile, a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Lamorde, was, yesterday, decorated alongside 17 others with the new rank of Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police. The 18 senior officers were recently promoted to the rank of AIG, upon retirement of others.  In a statement yesterday, the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Mr. Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, said: “Following the decoration of newly promoted Assistant Inspectors General of Police and Commissioners of Police at the Force Headquarters, the Inspector General of Police, Ag. IGP M.A Adamu has ordered the posting and redeployment of the following Senior Police Officers to Zones, Formations and Commands.”  Below are the AIGs and their zones of command: Wilson A. Inalegwu, (AIG Zone 9, Umuahia); Abdul Dahiru Danwawo (Maritime); Adeyemi O. Ogunjemilusi (Directing Staff NIPPS); Maurice A. Yusuf (AIG Research and Planning); Ibrahim Lamorde (Force Intelligence Bureau); Murtala Mani (Force CID); Tijani Baba (Zone 7, Abuja), Dibal Yakadi, (Zone 5, Benin); Haruna Huzi Mshelii (Zone 3, Yola); and Mohammed Mustapha (Zone 10, Sokoto). Others are: Musa A. Kimo (Zone 6, Calabar); Adeleye Olusola Oyebade (Zone 11, Osogbo); Basen Dapiya Gwana (Zone 12, Bauchi); Karma Hosea Hassan (Staff College, Jos); Folawiyo David (Training & Development); Zana Ibrahim (Commandant POLAC, Kano); Chris Ezike (Zone 4, Makurdi); and Moses A. Jitiboh (Investment, FHQ). Lagos CP, Awunah confirmed   The Police Service Commission (PSC) has approved the promotion of 250 senior officers to the next ranks. In a statement yesterday by its Head of Press and Public Relations, Mr. Ikechukwu Ani, the PSC said the promotion was one of the highpoints of its 24th… In "News" The Police Service Commission (PSC) has announced the promotion of 18 Commissioners of Police (CPs) to the next rank of Assistant Inspector General of Police. Also, thirty-three Deputy Commissioners of Police, have been elevated to the substantive rank of CP. The disclosure was made in a statement yesterday by the… In "National news" The Police Service Commission (PSC) has announced the promotion of 18 Commissioners of Police (CPs) to the next rank of Assistant Inspector General of Police. Also, 33 Deputy Commissioners of Police, have been elevated to the substantive rank of CP. The disclosure was made in a statement yesterday by the… In "News"