With few days to the much-talked about 2019 general elections, OJIEVA EHIOSUN reports that fever, tension, and anxiety have gripped politicians in Edo State as many of them devise campaign strategies to woo voters.   For the electorate in Edo State, February 16 is not only a judgment day for politicians, it is also a time to rate each one according to their works, and time for the voters to take a part of their national cake from those that had been in power in the last four years. Voters are beginning to ask questions about the credibility of those seeking political positions. Right now, there is lobbying and political alignments and realignments of various groups, as many of the candidates take their campaign battle to the interior, a place they had not visited in the past years. Just like a villager put it, “now you see convoy of SUVs and all kinds of flashy cars in the villages canvassing for votes and supports”.
In Edo State, there are two major political parties making waves; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and the All Progressives Congress (APC). There are other paties like the ADP and ADC, whom many analysts have argued may not win much unlike the two major parties, where there are political tacticians that are household names. Taking a look at the political trend in the three senatorial districts; Edo Central, Edo North and Edo South, one cannot say which is the most popular or the most acceptable. Edo Central: 
Clifford Odia (PDP)
Engineer Clifford Odia is the incumbent senator representing Edo Central. He is man loved and cherished by the people of Esan-land for his visionary leadership. In his four years of stewardship in the senate, he extended his hands of fellowship to the people; he touched virtually all the five local government areas that made up Edo Central. In every segment of development, Odia has his presence felt, he has also sponsored many bills. His achievements can be compared to that of Senator Matthew Urhoghide of Edo South.
Despite his magnanimity as a lawmaker, he has a stiff battle to fight, because of the interest of politicians in Edo Central. Odia seems a better politician than many of his peers because of his track records and experience. He is also not a politician that could be pushed away with a wave of hand; he has paid his dues as a politician and had won the hearts of many people in Esan-land. Some had even argued that he operates like Governor Godwin Obaseki who does not make noise, but believes in live and let live principle, hence he has the blessings of some Esan elders and voters to be the man to wear the senatorial wig for adequate and quality representation.
In the views of some his constituents, Odia has a lot of respect for his opponents not minding the differences in age and experience in governance. They argued that, that is why they cannot underrate the young man from Igueben.
A respondent said: “Election is a game of numbers. Recent investigations had shown that the PDP man is likely to carry the day because of the caliber of people and crowd that attends his campaign. In one of his campaign program, Odia told the people that the 2019 election is not about him, but about securing the future of the great masses of this country.
“We are not in time of war, but when you look at what is happening in Nigeria, it is more than people at war. This election is not about Engineer Clifford Odia, rather it is about you securing your future and that of your unborn generation.
“So, we must join hands to save Nigeria from the grip of insecurity, hardship, tribalism, economic quagmire, joblessness and social unrest. It is only the PDP combination that can get Nigeria working again.” John Osagie Inegbedion (APC)
Hon. John Inegbedion is the Commissioner for Finance and the longest serving commissioner with a sensitive portfolio such as finance in the history of Edo State. It is his believe that people are allowed to aspire to any height as destined by God, as long as their aspirations and visions are not beclouded by illusions. Inegbedion, to those who are close to him is a very jolly good fellow who is not carried away by the affluent position. He was a banker by brought on a platter by the powers that be in the state to test the other side of life.
Some of his political opponents in the state have described him as a baby in politics, who used the godfather’s channel as a gateway to his current position. Today, Inegbedion is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, currently seeking to represent Esan-land at the senate.
Good dreams, good aspirations and good vision but many political pundits in the state are of the opinion that he is too young to wear the toga and shoes of a senator in a senatorial districts where there are political generals and grandfathers of politics who can even tell him his life history.
Be that as it may, Inegbedion has made some impart in governance, though this is going to be his first baptism of fire in the political arena. As opined by a political analysts, an elective position is different from political appointment.
“In spite of the fact that Nigerian electorate are clamouring for young people in political offices, John has to kick start his political career from the ward level, not riding on the back of his political godfather to say that he wants to wear the senatorial garment”.
As a young and intelligent man that he is, there are thousands of odds militating against his ambition though he is said to be the governor’s anointed candidate. Till this moment, some of the people in Esan have not accepted him as their candidate. The anger against him by some of the elders is still very fresh, and because they believed he was unjustly imposed on them by his godfathers, they also see him as a young man from the Esan minority side of Igueben.
Others say that he has not gotten the required legislative experience to represent the people of Edo Central at the Red Chambers. In Igueben constituency, there are 10 wards; only one ward is seen to be winners’ take all at the detriment of others.
The implication is that people who had been marginalised are not happy with the development, meaning that the APC candidate has many huddles to cross in this race. Edo South:
Senator Matthew Urhoghide (PDP) aka Promise keeper
Senator Matthew Urhoghide is the incumbent senator representing Edo South at the Upper Chambers and currently seeking a second term under the umbrella of the PDP. The senator is a man with many parts whom the people of Edo South hold in high esteem. Politicians from both the APC and the PDP often described him as a godsent who had touched virtually many lives in Edo South not minding political, ethnic and religious affiliations. Due to his political savvy, many political elders, market women, taxi drivers, traditional title holders and youths across the length and breadth of Edo South have described him as a ‘promise keeper’, while others refer to him as ‘our son our pride’.
During the official flagoff of his campaign in Benin recently, Hon. Omosede Igbinedion described the “amiable and articulate lawmaker” as a man that has won the people’s hearts. The presence of Senator Urhoghide is felt in all the local governments that makes up Edo South. To many people in his domain, Edo South voters are clamouring for his return as they encourage continuity.
“The essence of continuity especially when his position is applauded is to ensure sustainability of good work for the betterment of the people. Those who know him very well can testify to it that the magnanimous Senator Urhoghide can even vacate his bed for you when it matters most.
“That goes a long way to show you how much he loves and care for his people. He has indeed empowered a lot of people, giving scholarships, providing homes for the homeless, feeding hundreds of people on a daily basis, paying bills for nursing mothers, above all, he will be a very difficult nut for the APC to crack.” Patrick Obahiagbon (APC)
Patrick Obahiagbon was two-time member of the House of Representatives, representing Oredo Federal Constituency of Edo state. Popularly called Igodomigodo, he is seen as a grammarian. Many have said that when Obahiagbon is talking, a listener needs an encyclopedia or a dictionary by the side to be able to understand what he is talking about. But when it comes to politics, it is a different ball game. In the political field, especially with a politician that had been tested by the electorates, it is the score cards that speaks.
For the APC senatorial candidate, though he appears to be the governor’s candidate, the people of his constituency are not in full support of his candidacy, beacuse many see him as somebody that does not have the political charisma to stand his PDP opponent.
According to some of the voters, he is a man who does not believe in dolling out cash to people, but believes in showing them how to make money.
“He doesnt give money but can show you how to catch fish. He has shown some few people how to fish among his immediate family, but that is not enough to earn him a vote for the Senate”.
“People who know him very well see him as a good and well educated person, but in this part of the world, grammar does not put food on the masses table. You must be seen to have played a major role in the empowerment of people not only your kindred.
“If our votes will count, Senator Urhoghide will have an overwhelming victory against his APC counterpart. Obahiagbon has no tangible project to show for his stewardship during his time at the House of Representatives”.
From sampled opinions, it is generally believed that all the APC candidates across the state are not doing much in their campaigns, but banking on federal might and the ‘power of incumbency’ while the PDP is sweating it out doing door-to-door campaign in the state.
Some APC followers are quick to say that the election is a forgone conclussion as long as Buhari remains the president. They say that even if Buhari did not do it, the former governor of the state, Adams Oshiomhole, will do it for them.
However, PDP apologists are quick to respond that the APC followers have forgotten that Nigerians are becoming politically conscious of their environment, noting that people can no longer be cajoled into doing things that will put their lives and that of the generation in perpetual bondage.
“They should be told that Governor Obaseki has enough administrative issues to attend to rather than dissipate energy in providing logistic with which to rig election. The wake and see governor is not the talking type, he has put politics aside and concentrate his mind on building infrastructures for the state. So for him, you must carry your cross”.
Obaseki, checks have shown, is determined to take Edo State to the zenith of development. He was once qouted to have said that ‘four good years is enough for a leader to perform’, and it is believed that, that is exactly what Obaseki is doing. Such a stance may be disastrous if APC candidates are waiting on the governor to bankroll their elections. They may be waiting in vain. Edo North: 
Engineer Abubakar Momoh (PDP)
Engineer Abubakar Momoh was a two term member of the House of Representatives under the platform of the PDP. He is currently seeking another term at the upper chambers to represent Edo North in the National Assembly.
During his eight years at the House of Representatives, the pragmatic lawmaker made a huge impart in his constituency. He has a compendium of projects which he executed, and those are the projects he is currently using to campaign. His scorecards, his followers argue, are there to speak for him. He is among one of the few politicians in Edo North that keep to his election promises. His vision for Edo North district is to see the Afenmai people remain as one entity in which no zone/clan sees itself as superior to the other.
During his stewardship in the House of Representatives, Hon. Momoh completed and commissioned well over 36 projects, he empowered over 7000 people in Etsako West, Etsako Central and Etsako East local government areas. The amiable and handsome looking law maker, who has a big fight ahead of him, is a household name in Edo politics.
In this particular election, because Edo North has two heavyweights that are bent in ensuring that PDP is disgraced, he has got a lot of work to do. It is going to be a battle between two big elephants and two ‘warlords’.
The incumbent National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, is from that zone, also, the fearless and very calculative deputy governor of the state, Comrade Philip Shaibu is also from that zone. So Engineer Momoh Abubakar has tough battle ahead of him.
When Saturday Telegraph visited Edo North recently, interactions with political party supporters within the APC and the PDP showed that Momoh is on ground but would have the APC incumbency to contend with. Many people are said to scared of the power from above, going by their sayings that election is a game, and at the end of it all, a winner must emerge. Hon. Francis Alimikhena (APC)
He is the present senator representing Edo North at the Senate. He is also seen as the anointed candidate of the APC in Edo North senatorial zone. He is said to have the blessings of the former governor and also had a smooth ride to the Senate in 2015, because the nation wanted a change.
“He was accepted without much rigours in 2015 because of the ‘Change’, but the 2019 election is a different ball game altogether because there seems to be a notion that all APC candidates have failed.
“People are looking for alternatives. So Senator Francis must work his hands up to be able to get a return ticket without banking on political godfathers”, an analyst opined.
Saturday Telegraph checks howvever show that the senator has done some remarkable projects, but his biggest challenge in Edo North, is that, no one has broken the jinx of going to the senate twice. But with the powers behind him, he is likely to break that jinx, many people have said.
Edo North election had been tipped by political analyst in the state to be the toughest because of many interests. It is going to be a supremacy battle between the APC and the PDP, considering that the very vocal PDP state chairman, Dr. Dan Osi Orbih, is a son of the soil from that part of the state.