 Nigeria is losing over N2 trillion ($6 billion) revenue yearly to foreign shipping companies due to the poor implementation of the Cabotage Act, New Telegraph has learnt.  The Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act 2003, was introduced in the country to protect the domestic shipping industry from foreign dominance.  However, 90 per cent of the indigenous shipping companies in the country have gone out of business due to lack of patronage by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Because of superior financial strength and high technical and management skills of foreign shipping companies, it was learnt that NNPC preferred the foreign shipping line above the indigenous operators to lift over 150 million tons of Nigerian oil.  Worried by government’s bad policy, Rector of the Certified Institute of Shipping of Nigeria (CISN), Professor Alex Okwushi, said in Lagos that the failure to amend the glaring defects in the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003 had not helped the existing and potential local operators to procure vessels in order to establish a foothold in the industry.  He explained that the indigenous shipowners in the country lacked power to compete with foreign shipping companies with their modern vessels.  Okwuashi said that the promulgation of the Coastal and Inland Shipping (Cabotage) Act, 2003 was one of the courageous steps by the Federal Government to empower local operators to take charge of the captive market within the territorial waters.  However, the rector lamented that the cabotage law had failed to achieve its purpose.  According to him, prior to the enactment of the Cabotage Act, some of the challenges, which had bedevilled the maritime industries, were still there.  Also, the rector said that failure to execute the provisions of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) had taken the industry back to the era prior to the enactment of the Cabotage Act.  He said that the interest of local shipping operators was never a priority to the government.  Recounting the ordeal of local ship-owners on the issue of ship vetting in the country, the Chairman of Integrated Oil, Capt. Emmanuel Ihenacho, had already said in Lagos that implementation of shipping laws were being done with impunity in the sector. According to him, the carriage of wet cargoes by local ship owners had become a nightmare because of the flagrant abuse of the waiver clause in the Coastal and Inland Shipping Act 2003 enjoyed by foreign shipping lines.  He noted that the foreign shipping lines preferred to do business with their foreign counterparts by vetting Nigerian ships. Ihenacho added that local shipping companies had continued to lose their contract whenever they introduced illegal vetting.  “There is no need for any shipping company to vet if my documents are correct and verified by NIMASA,” he said. NIMASA is the flag authority; hence, if my papers are correct as per NIMASA, they can’t claim to know better than the flag administration.”  Also, Oliver Ogboagu, an engineer and a shipping expert, complained that foreigners were rejecting Nigerian vessels frivolously in order to partner with foreign vessels as against Cabotage Act. He added that the tender NNPC was issuing was a breach to Nigerian laws, saying Cabotage Act stipulated that 50 per cent of the bulk cargo must be lifted by Nigerian vessels. He said in Lagos that foreign liners were those benefitting from the country’s coastal trade instead of the local ship owners.  Ogbuagu explained that NNPC was one of the agencies hindering the growth of indigenous shipping in the country.