Thousands of Nigerians who want to travel to vote in the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections have been given airfare cut by Aero Contractors and Arik Air. Both carriers yesterday introduced promo fares in what they termed ‘Fly to Vote promotion’ to encourage disenchanted elector-ate. But for an eligible air traveller to qualify for the promo, he must present his Permanent Voter Card (PVC). The airlines made the disclosure in separate statements issued in Lagos. Nigerians are set to go to the polls on February 23 to elect their President, 109 senators and 360 members of the House of Representatives after the elections earlier scheduled for February 16 were postponed. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has also fixed March 9 for gubernatorial and House of Assembly polls. Arik Air’s Chief Executive Officer, Captain Roy Ilegbodu, said the N16,000 Fly to Vote promotion was to encourage Nigerians to travel to their respective wards to cast their votes during the elections. Ilegbodu said: “Arik Air, Nigeria’s leading airline has introduced a N16, 000 Fly to Vote promotion to encourage Nigerians travel to their respective wards to cast their votes in the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections, as well as the Gubernatorial and State Houses of Assembly elections holding across the country on February 23, 2019 and March 9, 2019 respectively. “The N16,000 promotional fare is the one-way ticket cost to any domestic destination on Arik Air’s network and customers must present a PVC at the point of purchase and at check in to be eligible to fly. “The Fly to Vote promotion is available for sale from February 18 till March 11 for travel between February 21 and February 26 as well as March 7 till March 12. “We have put this promotional fare in place to ameliorate the effect of the postponement on the travelling public and encourage voter participation.” Spokesman of Aero Contractors, Mr. Chika Ubendu, said the airline embarked on the promo as its own contribution to support Nigeria conduct successful elections and also to encourage the citizens to travel to where they can cast their votes. According to him, Aero has decided to cut its fares by about 50 per cent to support Nigerians to travel without spending so much. He said that this was an incentive to the citizens to carry out their civic responsibility during the elections. Ubendu said effective February 18, Aero would begin sale of tickets from N16,000 for travels between February 21 and February 25 on all routes to encourage Nigerians to travel to their various destinations in order to cast their votes.