Elders of Nkporo community in Lagos yesterday rallied support for former Abia state governor and Abia North senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, who they described as the highest benefactor of the community. KaluistheAbiaNorthSenatorial candidate of the APC. Addressing the elders of the community, Chief Peter Eme, Community leader in Nkporo in Ohafia local government area of Abia state, listed some of the benefits that Kalu had attracted to the community to include empowerment of its sons and infrastructure. According to him, “OUK is central to what we enjoy today as Nkporo political relevance. OUK gave Nkporo the First Executive Chairman of Ohafia LGA, Chief Ufere Ilum Eme. Under OUK, the following commissioners were appointed from Nkporo, Arua Arunsi, Otuu Irukwu, Arunsi Uka and Kalu Ndukwe.” Also, Eme reminded the elders that it was Kalu who appointed Ude Okude Egwu from Elughu Nkporo as the first Magistrate from Nkporo just as he appointed Ogba Ude Ndukwe from Amurie Nkporo as ABSIEC commissioner. He, however, recalled that in 2003 as the PDP leader in Abia state, Kalu authorized zoning of Ohafia North House of Assembly seat in favour of Nkporo and the emergence of Ude Oko Chukwu, the present deputy governor as flag bearer. “This singular gesture initiated the process and paved the way for whatever Ude Oko Chukwu is today.” Kalu, popularly known by his initials, OUK “also constructed the first Asphalt Road from Alayi/ Item to Amurie Nkporo, created the present 5 electoral ward structure in Nkporo, created the present Autonomous communities structure in Nkporo and resolved the age long chieftaincy crisis between Elughu and Amurie Nkporo communities. The APC senatorial candidate, according to Eme, electrified and energized most communities in Nkporo when he appointed Prince Arua the Abia state commissioner for public utilities. “OUK appointed an Nkporo son the Director General of his political structure Reality Organization worldwide. “Under OUK, Nkporo benefited from his free education programme. “OUK initiated and extended free medical care to all parts of Abia state including Nkporo. “Most families in Nkporo are benefiting from the harvest of free palm oil seedlings distributed by OUK as governor of Abia state. “Today and even with our son as deputy governor, Nkporo has lost almost everything including peace, unity and political cohesion. “OUK has loved Nkporo more than the present PDP political leadership in Nkporo.”