Adeola Laolu-Amusan is the founder of Grandma’s Hut, an outfit committed to promoting culture through palm wine and traditional attires. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, the former banker, who has a Masters Degree in Mass Communication from the University of Lagos, explains the idea behind her business, why she left a promising career in banking sector for palm wine and cultural promotion business.  You started as a banker, such lucrative and promising job, why did you quit, and became a ‘palm wine seller’? I am graduate of Mass Communication from Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), where I had my first degree, and also Masters Degree in Mass Communication, University of Lagos.  I worked in First Bank, Zenith Bank and Wema Bank, respectively. My last job as a salary earner was as the Brand Manager with Chi Nigeria Limited. Right now, I sell fresh and unadulterated palm wine.  As to why I left, at some point, I got married, got pregnant, and had to resign from my work. It took a while as I had to take care of my baby, and after that I didn’t want to go back to paid employment. I just sat down and thought within me what I should do, something different, something unique, something cultural, something that would bring back old memories, because the cultural things are gradually going into extinction. The idea of selling palm wine came to my mind. I felt I should go into selling palm wine, and that it will take three things. One, get the real and original palm wine with its original taste; two, serve it is with original calabashes and gourds. So, it teaches children what it used to be like in the olden days; thirdly, the use of traditional fashion, because our fathers were always dressed in traditional attires. The idea is to also promote traditional fashion. Depending on the party, if the person having the party is Igbo, we dress according to their culture; and so on. For instance, the one we did last week was an Igbo event, so the servers of the palm wine were dressed in Igbo attires. The one we did before that was by a Yoruba person, the servers were dressed in aso oke attire.  Business of palm is largely a man’s world… Yes… In fact when people call me or send message to me requesting for palm wine, and I get there, and they see a woman, or they have an event and they want us to bring palm wine, and I get there, they are amazed when they see me. I tell them, ‘yes, I do palm wine.’ And they are surprised. But it is nice, when you in such a business. I am not a feminist though, but I feel if it is buying and selling, I can do it too.  How was your first taste of palm wine? At what age was this? I grew up in Oyo town. My daddy was a civil servant. I can tell you that, although I was not really an ardent consumer of palm wine, I could identify bad and good palm wine. And right now, I can also say that palm wine is a family business for me. I have an uncle who does palm wine on a large scale in Abeokuta. It is not about me alone; so when I taste it and I am confused I can also get some people to say that I am coming over so that they can taste it. And at times I tell them I want 100 litres or 200 litres, and they get it for me fresh.   At what point did the idea of incorporating culture through ensuring that those who serve it are adorned in traditional attire and that it served in calabash and gourds?  I am educated and exposed. And my dad used to tell me while growing up that even if you want to tell pepper, you need to go to school. So, as a graduate or educated person, if you say I don’t want to work in a bank and so on, and want to sell palm wine or pepper there should be a difference.  On one-on-one you might not really have customers but when it comes to events, I can tell you that I have work with major events planners in Nigeria. I worked with more than 15 events planners in 2018; and I did more than 48 weddings in 2018.   I hope to achieve more than that this year.  How do you get the calabashes and gourds?   I travel far. For instance, early last year I travelled to as far as Oyo Town, Iseyin and Oshogbo. I was looking for calabashes and gourds. I had event, so I had to go from one village to the other, looking for them. And these things don’t come cheap. A calabash is more expensive than a glass cup. At times one had to travel, call people just to get calabashes. It is good for me because it helps you to explore towns, cultures and it exposes you. But it is not easy. At times you get to a town or village and you don’t get it to see it. A journey that is supposed to take you two hours will end up taking you like four hours. And you need to get it because of your customers.   How often do you get invited to supply palm wine Sometimes I have two or three jobs in a day. But when I started I was just doing one job in a day. Last year, there was a day I did three – they were in different locations, one was in Abeokuta, one was in Lekki, another one was in Ajah, both in Lagos. And for me, monitoring is key. Those working with me know that I am always on ground.  So, how has it been generally?  Well, it has been interesting, yet challenging because getting good palm wine is not cheap. If you buy good palm wine of 50 litres, some people can add a lot of water and saccharine into it, and make 100 litres out of 50 litres, then it becomes cheap…
But we are selling unadulterated palm wine. But people who don’t know the difference, who buy the cheap ones come to me and want to buy at the same rate, and when you try to tell them why the prices are different they think that you just canvas them into buying it.
But some people who know, they buy from me.   How was your experience working in the banking sector?  It was good, interesting; it was lucrative. But I wanted to do core advertising. It was nice; you wake up in the morning, dressed up in your nice jacket, walk the street of Marina Lagos as a banker. It was nice. But I wanted to do something really different, something that is really of interest to me, which is core advertising. That was why I moved to Chi Nigeria Limited as a Brand Manager.   What informed your choice of studying Mass Communication?  Growing up, I used to be a very good writer; even till now, I still write very well. I write scripts for advert; I write communiques for organisations. I have flair for writing. That was what informed my choice of studying Mass Communication. And later on when I was a student of Mass Communication, I got in contact with advertising and branding, which is actually of interest to me. So, when I got into university, at some point I needed to change between journalism and advertising. I chose advertising, and that was what helped me in becoming a brand manager at some point.