Experts have harped on the need for peace education and conflict resolution to be included in the school curriculum. That, they said, would help to groom a future generation free from conflict. REGINA OTOKPA reports  As the day breaks, there are cases of conflicts in one part of the country or the other. These may be attributed to political, social, economic or cultural factors . Some experts have argued that the tremendous increase in youth population is partly responsible for the unending conflicts in Nigeria.
Nigeria has an estimated population of 200 million people and is predicted to become the third most populous country in the world by 2030. The population of Nigeria has an annual growth rate of 3.2 per cent, resulting in a youth population explosion of two-third of the entire population.
Worried over the statistics and its likely implication on conflicts, the International Youth Reformation Organization (IYOREF) in collaboration with Crisis Simulation for Peace (CRISP) Germany, recently launched a peace education and media literacy in Nigerian institutions, using stimulation game beginning from schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).
Inside Abuja checks revealed that the programme would cover students in at least 600 private schools and over 169 public schools within the six area councils of the FCT, before moving on to capture other states in the country.
The simulation game is an innovative way to think about peace education and to educate people from all ages to work towards the culture of peace in Nigeria. This model according to the Executive Director IYOREF, Adeniyi Oluwatoyin, promises to be one of the most effective models in preaching and inculcating the culture of peace in youths.
“We have been working on peace for over years and we find most Nigerians are not using the conventional means to preach peace. Stimulation game is a germane way of preaching peace in Germany and we find it will work in Nigeria because it is all inclusive. This is a suitable method to preach peace. We are using FCTA as a pilot case. It’s in stages; we want to start with the schools. Afterwards, we will go to the institutions,” he said.
The Project Coordinator CRISP, Sarah Young, who strongly advocated for inclusion of peace education and conflict transformation in the schools’ curriculum using the simulation game, argued that it would help provide local solutions to local problems using innovative methods.
“We want peace in Nigeria. We want the citizens to be informed about the conflicts in their country, to understand their roots and their developments and to be educated in ways to mitigate existing conflicts and prevent new ones from developing in the future.
“Incorporate peace education, conflict transformation into the school curriculum. It is the most important thing for Nigeria. Every child in Nigeria must learn conflict transformation in school to be confident in their ability to communicate clearly and nonviolently with anyone they meet. To respect the cultural, ethnic, linguistic, religious diversity of Nigeria and protect the rights of their fellow citizens to live according to their traditions, values and beliefs,” she said.
The Chairman, FCT Secondary Education Board, Yahaya Mohammed, noted that Nigeria was more than willing to embrace any innovation that would help promote peaceful coexistence to exterminate all forms of conflicts that has held the county in bondage.