 ●Bello promises financial support for victims About 69 shops and goods believed to worth about N200 million were destroyed when fire broke out at the Monday Market, New Bussa in Borgu Local Government Area of Niger State.
The inferno which gutted the market on Sunday night gutted 54 permanent locked-up shops, 15 attached shops and merchandise said to worth over N200 million. Responding to the incident, the state government said it would provide functional fire fighting station in each of the 25 local government areas of the state. Governor Sani Bello disclosed this yesterday when he made an on-the-spot-assessment of the burnt market, saying “government will provide support to the victims to reduce their hardship”. He said: “I assure all the victims of financial support and I have directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) to do a proper assessment to identify victims and look into how they would be compensated.” Bello, who noted that fire outbreak in markets across the state had become a reoccurring incident, said there was need to build fire stations in markets and local government headquarters.
He said: “This is not the first time we are experiencing fire outbreak in markets across the state. Now it has happened in New Bussa but the most important thing is that no life was lost. “What we can do is to ensure that we have fire service stations in all the local government headquarters and we have built seven stations already. So we also have to ensure we set up one here as soon as possible so that when there is fire outbreak we can contain it before it causes more damage.”
The governor, however, called on the market committee to redesign the market system and ensure that highly inflammable products were kept in a specific area in the market, ensure they monitor market activities and ensure that each shop had a fire extinguisher so as to enable them to address such occurrences. Bello added that government would liaise with the local government to rebuild the market.
The Director-General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Inga, disclosed that 54 permanent shops and 15 attached shops were affected.
He added that property worth over N200 million were lost.