Gunmen have killed four officials of the Ondo State Command of the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The armed men, suspected to be drug barons, had on Sunday laid an ambush for the victims’ patrol vehicle before opening fire on them. The officials, who fell to the bullets of the suspected drug lords, are identified as Abduljalad Mohammed, Wellinton Emmanuel, Magaji Aliu and Mohammed lliyasu. The gunmen, who were on motorcycle, killed four out of the five officers who were on patrol duty on Sobe-Ifon Road in Ose Local Government Area. Sources in the community said the gunmen left the victims’ bodies on the road. A source said the victims’ bodies were found by some farmers on their way from farm near the Ikaro check-point in the early hours of yesterday. The source said when the bod ies were discovered, their guns were not found with them. The gunmen, according to the source, must have taken away the rifles after killing the officials. “Our society is no longer safe, if armed men are being gunned down like this,” the source said. The state NDLEA Commander, Mr. Haruna Dagara, confirmed the incident. He said suspected drug lords killed his men who were on patrol duty. Dagara said two gunmen, who were on motorbike with AK47 rifles, opened fire on the patrol vehicle and killed four out of five officers in the van. He said the killing was intentionally carried out by drug lords. According to him, the area is notorious for Indian hemp business. Dagara, however, said the NDLEA was working with other security agents to unravel the motive for the killing and arrest the culprits. He said: “Our men have gone to evacuate the corpses from the scene and other paramilitary agencies are on ground.” Gagara, however, vowed that the killing of his men would not deter the agency in its fight against narcotics and those promoting it. The commander described the loss of four NDLEA officials as “very painful.” According to him, with the collaboration of other security agencies in the state, the fight against narcotics dealers has just begun. He added: “Five of my officers were on patrol duty on Ifon Road, two persons on motorcycle with AK47 rifles in a sack opened fire on the officers, killing four while one escaped unhurt. “They set the patrol van ablaze before they left. This type of incident has not happened before, but we have had cases of mob attack. This is the first time they came and attack our men for no reason. “It is an unprovoked attack. The people we are waging war against are the prime suspects. I am sure that God will expose them and we will get them. “But I am promising you, this will not deter us, rather this will ginger us to do more. I assure you that with other security agencies in the state, the war will surely be worn.”