Kaduna state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, on Tuesday threatened the murder of foreign nationals who might interfere in upcoming Nigerian general elections. The controversial governor who was a guest on NTA on Tuesday, February 5th spoke about the recent statements made by foreign representatives, UK, US and EU on the suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. The foreign representatives had in different statements released on January 26th, said the suspension of Onnoghen few weeks to the general election, will cast doubts on the credibility of the elections. The Federal government and the ruling party had in seperate statements asked the foreign representatives to stop interfering in Nigeria’s politics. Speaking on NTA last night, Governor El-Rufai said ”Those that are calling for anyone to come and intervene in Nigeria, we are waiting for the person that will come and intervene. They will go back in body bags because nobody will come to Nigeria and tell us how to run our country”. Watch video below  Foreigners who interfere in Nigerian politics, will go back in body bags – Gov #Elrufai. : NTA A post shared by  Instablog9ja (@instablog9ja) on Feb 6, 2019 at 1:45am PST  For refusing to resign following the allegation of corruption levelled against him, Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El- Rufai, yesterday described the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, as a ‘shameless man’. El-Rufai, who was speaking to members of the Coalition of Civil Society Organisations, who protested to… In "News" The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Kaduna State chapter yesterday disclosed that the state Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, does not speak like a leader. CAN statement is coming on the heels of the reports credited to el-Rufai that even if he picks the Pope as a running mate, Christians in… In "News" …says Christians in Southern Kaduna won’t vote for him with Pope as running mate     Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, has urged the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, to protect the institution he represented by stepping down from his office. The Federal Government had over… In "News"