AKEEM NAFIU writes that conflicting judgements on election cases being churned out by courts of coordinate jurisdiction if not promptly checked is capable of putting partisan garb on the judiciary and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) while also creating uncertainty in the electoral process   It is not in doubt that conflicting judgements emanating from courts of coordinate jurisdiction when election disputes are being decided have continued to impact negatively on the nation’s electoral process since the return of democracy in 1999. Pre and post-election disputes handled by many courts, particularly those of coordinate jurisdictions have been tainted with conflicting judgements. Menace of conflicting judgements has indeed done a lot of damage to the judicial system. Consistency and certainty which are cornerstones of the legal system hinged on judicial precedent seemed to have taken a flight especially in election litigations in the country. However, it appears that the judiciary rather than playing its age-long traditional constitutional role of being an interpreter of the law and an instrument of conflict resolution is rather seen as the harbinger of anarchy and confusion. It is more worrisome that the court at the appellate level is even not insulated from this abuse of court’s process. The Court of Appeal has handed down conflicting judgments and decisions in its interpretation of the Electoral Act and other enactments on election litigations. Cases of conflicting judgements • The Court of Appeal in an appeal lodged by Jimi Agbaje of the Democratic Peoples Alliance (DPA) against the election of Tunde Fashola of the Action Congress (AC) as Lagos governor on April 14, 2007, dismissed the use of biro or accreditation of voters other than the one described in the manual for conduct of election as inconsequential. However, in similar case involving Kayode Fayemi and Segun Oni, the Court of Appeal in its judgement of 18th February, 2010, nullified the Ekiti State Governorship elections in 63 out of the 177 Wards in Ekiti state just because accreditation was done with a Red Biro stipulated by the manual for the conduct of election. • A protracted intra-party feud in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) resulted in Ali Modu Sheriff and Ahmed Makarfi leading rival factions, which at different times obtained conflicting judgements from Federal High Courts in Abuja and Port Harcourt respectively. The conflict was later laid to rest by the Supreme Court on 12th July, 2017 when Makarfi who was the Chairman of National Caretaker Committee of the party was affirmed as being in charge. • Several conflicting court judgements also trailed the 2016 governorship election dispute in Abia State between Okezie Ikpeazu and Uche Ogah, both of the PDP. • The most recent classical case of conflicting judgements was on the debacle in Zamfara state over the propriety of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to field candidates for elective positions during the 2019 general election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had said it would not allow the APC to field candidates in Zamfara because the party failed to conduct primaries before the deadline stipulated. The party however insisted that it conducted primaries which produced the current governor, Abdulaziz Yari, as a senatorial candidate and his Commissioner of Finance, Shehu Idris, as the governorship candidate, among others. Conflicting rulings were subsequently issued by two courts of coordinate jurisdiction; Zamfara State High Court and An Abuja Federal High Court, on whether the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) can accept candidates presented by the party for the elections. In Zamfara State, a High Court sitting in Gusau presided over by Justice Muhammad Shinkafi, ruled that the governing APC actually conducted primaries in the state on the 3rd and 7th of October, 2018 and should be allowed to present candidates for the elections. The court also barred the national secretariat of the APC from replacing the names of those who won the primary elections of the party. However, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu of a Federal High Court in Abuja ruled otherwise. In her verdict, she held that the electoral umpire acted within its powers by refusing to accept the list of candidates from the Zamfara state chapter of the APC. The judge said it was not the fault of INEC that the APC failed to conduct a valid primary within the period scheduled by the electoral body. She added that INEC’s action was intended to curb impunity among political parties and politicians and ensure that rule of law is adhered to. According to her, such action from INEC was good for democracy and capable of instilling discipline in political parties. The matter was later resolved by a ruling from the Court of Appeal in Abuja which directed INEC to allow APC candidates in Zamfara state participate in the polls. INEC has since complied with the order which came barely 24 hours to the commencement of the general election. Election Tribunal About 267 judges, who will handle the 2019 National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly Election Petition Tribunals have been inaugurated by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammad. On the occasion, the Acting CJN warned the judges to avoid any form of partisanship. He urged them to submit themselves to the sanctity of the rule of law and supremacy of the Constitution in the discharge of their judicial functions. “This is an enormous national assignment that will literally put the contents of your conscience to test. I am convinced that this is not the first oath you have taken as Judicial Officers, and certainly won’t be your last, especially as you ascend the ladder of your career. “No amount of homily can convey the enormity of this task. But suffice it to say that you are already initiating an interaction with history. Whatever action or inaction you exhibit will serve as your testament in the annals of the Nigerian judiciary. “There is no doubt that you will be exposed to different forms of temptations and even blackmails, but you should know that all are aimed at testing your strength of character, honesty and integrity. “As you all know, the rule of law delayed, is lasting peace denied because justice is a handmaiden of true peace. We need this in Nigeria more than ever before. The trumpet must first sound from the temple of justice; hence we put you forward as champions of this noble cause”, he said. Danger of conflicting judgements A lot of concerns have been raised on the need to arrest the ugly trend of conflicting judgements on election cases. Speaking at a workshop for Election Tribunal judges and members in Abuja, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, lamented the damage being done to the nation’s electoral process by the menace. At the occasion, the INEC chair told his audience that conflicting judgements, especially by courts of coordinate jurisdiction is already taken negative toll on the electoral umpire. According to him, the menace is putting the commission in a very difficult position and creating uncertainty in the electoral process. “The court in one judicial division may order the commission on a particular course of action only to be contradicted by another court of coordinate jurisdiction from another division or even within the same division on the same subject matter. “Conflicting court orders are negatively affecting the consistency, neutrality, and public perception, not only of the Commission, but the judiciary as well. “There is therefore the urgent need to address the issue of conflicting judgements in order to engender certainty in the electoral process”, he said Speaking on the issue, Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, noted that conflicting judgements impact negatively on the public perception of judicial officers to guarantee unequivocal justice. “In addition to this daunting challenge, the proper venue to institute proceedings remains a recurring issue which must be tackled frontally. Recent events in the polity have shown that aggrieved candidates go forum shopping to suit their selfish political ambitions. “Judges must ensure that the judiciary must not be drawn into the blackhole of political expediency as they are not willing tools to be exploited by the whims and caprices of politicians. “It is important that the judiciary must maintain absolute independence. The judiciary must continue to take steps to ensure that it is not seen as being partisan but must always demonstrate manifest integrity in its adjudicatory processes”, the CJN said. Lawyers speak Some members of the inner and outer Bar have also been speaking on how to stem the ugly tide of conflicting judgements, particularly as Nigerians go into another general election. The lawyers while baring their minds on the issue at the weekend lamented the situation saying it is largely attributed to the abandonment of doctrine of precedent. Speaking on the issue, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Mike Ahamba, noted that the trend will continue until there is respect for doctrine of precedent by courts of the land. He said: “All we need to do is to go back to the statutory and jurisprudential respect for the doctrine of precedent. Most courts of the land no longer respect the doctrine of precedent. “It was on this vein that I wrote a paper in 2004 in which I made an appeal that disputes arising from Gubernatorial and Senatorial elections should go to the Supreme Court because of the cacophony of voices coming from the different Divisions of the Court of Appeal. “In the words of the late Justice Oputa, ‘certainty of law is a fundamental aspect of law’, therefore, if one court will say one thing today and say another thing tomorrow depending on the parties in a matter, then, that certainty is killed. This is not good for us. We must unify our judicial opinions and depart from them as provided by existing court’s pronouncement.” Another silk, Mr. Seyi Sowemimo, said the problem of conflicting judgements is not unconnected with the nation’s dysfunctional judiciary system. “This is part of the problems facing the judiciary. It’s an indication that there are lots of underhand dealings here and there. It shouldn’t be, but when you have a system that dysfunctional, we cannot but have this kind of issues. “Certainly, there is a need for a lot of reforms in the justice sector. This is because these lapses will surely have a negative effect on our electoral process. “However, when there are conflicting judgements, INEC is bound to obey them. It is for the parties concerned to take the matter to the next level. If these judgements are coming from the High Court, then, parties will go to the Court of Appeal in order to get more authoritative pronouncement. In other areas where possible, election can also be deferred by INEC because of conflicting judgements”, he said. To Dr. Biodun Layonu (SAN), legislation clarifying jurisdiction where election cases can be filed must be in existence if the menace will be tackled. He said: “Unless we legislate that all election matters in respect of federal positions must go to Federal High Court either in the territory where the constituency is or all must be in Abuja, the problem of conflicting judgements will persist. “Currently some of these matters are taken in the State High Courts because there is a section of the Electoral Act that gives State High Court jurisdiction regardless of whether its State Houses of Assembly or National Assembly. “Lawyers are also contributing to the problem by engaging in forum shopping, largely because the Electoral Act can be said to give that choice. But, if statute takes it away, it will stop. But above all, all these anomalies over conflicting judgements by courts of coordinate jurisdiction will always be resolved at the appellate level”. A former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Monday Ubani, cautioned judges on the need to do away with partisanship in the discharge of their duties saying this is only way out of the problem. “I will advise the judges to insist on application of the law. They should apply law and not politics or sentiments in dealing with political disputes. It has been observed that in most cases, these judgements were tainted with politics and this usually affects the final decisions of court. “Besides, judges must also try as much as possible to follow precedent, especially where there has been a pronouncement on the issue at hand by a higher court”, he said. A rights activist, Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, said a coordinated mechanism to ascertain the existence of similar cases existing in different divisions of the court is needed to tackle the problem. He said: “On the whole, I think this issue has become very problematic considering that decisions of court are essential components of election preparation processes in Nigeria. Indeed, anywhere in the world where the rule of law operates. “Essentially, when we have courts of coordinate jurisdiction given conflicting judgements, then the electoral umpire will be thrown into a very difficult position where it might not be able to pick and decide which judgement to obey. The issue of conflicting judgements also makes mockery of the entire judicial system of the country. “To arrest this anomaly, a serious coordinated mechanism to ascertain the existence of similar cases existing in different divisions of the court should be put in place. Through this, the courts are always put on red alert. It flags itself as an existing case elsewhere. “In any event, judgements of courts of coordinate jurisdiction can not be used as as precedent and are not in any way binding. But the lower courts are bound by any pronouncement of courts of superior jurisdiction. “Lawyers are also deliberately engaging in forum shopping. The ineffectiveness of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has been fueling this practice. What we have at the moment is an NBA that is already a burden unto itself. “The Disciplinary Committee as an organ of the NBA should be functional by checkmating this kind of practice. There is no way a lawyer can engage in such an action without running foul of the law but sadly it is happening and people are getting away with it. “Besides, the judges must have a mechanism through which some of these cases are detected. Research assistants must be provided for judges. These people may not be involved in delivering judgements but they will be occupied with the task of tracking cases around the country and be able to report them in a way that judges does not fall into the trap of churning out conflicting judgements.”