●Foreigners can’t dictate how we conduct polls – FG Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has declared that “only an Act of God” can stop the conduct of the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections slated for Saturday February 23. Yakubu stated this in Abuja yesterday, while addressing a cross section of the diplomatic community and international election monitoring groups in Nigeria for the 2019 general elections.
The briefing, which was organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in conjunction with INEC, was aimed at engaging with friends and partners of Nigeria on the rescheduled election. Yakubu, who was represented by an INEC National Commissioner, Dr. Mustapha Lecky, said that the commission had put in place everything possible to ensure the elections hold on Saturday.
The INEC boss said that the commission had no reason to feel that anything will stop the conduct of the election on February 23. According to him, the commission has developed a six-point agenda of what needed to be done to ensure success of the election. He also said that the commission has completed the deployment of materials.
His words: “We believe that as a prayerful nation, the act of God has been assuaged and that things will go right, we have no reason to feel that anything will go wrong. We have received all the materials, they have been checked, audited, people have been informed, party agents have gone there to check.”
The official said that INEC has already taken responsibility for the postponement and that the body is committed to surpass its achievements in previous elections. He blamed the postponement on logistics and problems associated with the primaries of some political parties, which according to him delayed the printing of ballot papers.
Meanwhile, Yakubu, at a press conference yesterday, announced that the commission has completed 100 per cent reconfiguration of the Smart Cards Readers (SCRs).
He said: “I am pleased to report that we have now achieved 100 per cent completion of the configuration. We are good to go on this score.
“Similarly, I briefed you on Tuesday that our state offices have commenced the process of inviting stakeholders to the Central Bank of Nigeria to examine the retrieved materials deployed last week and to witness the batching of materials according to local government areas. Reports from the states indicate full compliance. “Similarly, I briefed you yesterday that having moved the sensitive materials to the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the forward deployment to the 774 LGAs nationwide will commence on Wednesday 20th February and be concluded on Thursday 21st February 2019.
“Already, Adamawa, Anambra, Benue, Ekiti, Jigawa, Katsina, Osun, Ogun, Oyo and Taraba states have commenced the movement of materials to LGAs today (Wednesday). Other states will do so and conclude on Thursday. We will give a full rendition of movement to LGAs across all states of the federation tomorrow (Thursday). “We have been making good progress on logistics. Similarly, all other arrangements for the movement of personnel from the LGAs to the wards are on course.”
Yakubu, however, admitted that that the commission has received reports of missing materials, but said such were negligible for now.
Meanwhile, the Federal Government yesterday, renewed its earlier warning to the international community not to interfere in the elections. It said Nigeria, being a sovereign nation cannot allow foreigners to dictate how it should conduct its affairs as that would amount to succumbing to interference in its internal affairs.
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, gave the warning while briefing heads of diplomatic missions and international election observer missions accredited to monitor the conduct of the elections.
At the briefing were the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Abubakar; INEC Commissioner in charge of Planning, Monitoring and Strategy, Dr. Muhammed Mustapha Lecky, who represented the Chairman of INEC at the session.  Onyeama said that since the postponement of the elections, there has been all kinds of narratives and the Federal Government felt it was absolutely important that the message should be communicated that the government was “absolutely and extremely disappointed” that INEC could not deliver the elections after all its preparations and assurances.  He said that he had in the past had cause to meet with some of the ambassadors to discuss issues regarding general narrative.
He said that while the Federal Government appreciates the support of a lot of countries to the electoral process, it felt concerned about how some of the heads of diplomatic missions went about their engagement in the country.
“We acknowledge how important your engagement was in 2015 to help us to deliver, probably one of the freest elections, and most transparent elections we have had in this country for a very long time. “So, we welcome the international observers, your countries and all the other friends and maybe, not so friendly members, media, to be totally engaged. But what we have had cause to be concerned about, has also sometimes been just the way the engagement has been communicated.
“At the end of the day, we are a sovereign country and the line shouldn’t be crossed from exhorting us and wanting us to succeed and wanting this to be really democratic process, to dictating to us and really getting into the nitty-gritty of how we run the country, which is exclusively the responsibility of this government. “As friendly as countries may be, I think that people will be extremely surprised if countries were holding elections and we were telling you how to run your government and so forth,” Onyeama said.
He added that government expects that the diplomatic missions will be impartial and help to observe that the elections are free, fair and credible and not to give any sense or indication that there might be preferences.
According to him, the Federal Government had put in place a level playing field for all concerned in the electoral process and it was absolutely important that INEC interacted directly with the world to enable them know exactly what has been going on.
According to him, government will not accept any excuses or any other reason for the election not to be held    on the rescheduled days. President Muhammadu Buhari, he said, had always insisted on a transparent process and desired free, fair and credible elections and would never deviate from the objective. “He had travelled as you all know to the 36 different states. I accompanied him on some of those trips and his stamina was really impressive. He, like everybody else, had really put a great deal into this. So, when at the last minute there was this decision to postpone by INEC, it was something that he couldn’t fathom. “There had not been any government interference with the process, the way INEC worked. Once it was created, they were completely left alone to get on with the process of organising free, fair, credible elections in this country,” Onyeama stated.
The Acting Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, said the police are working with other security agencies to ensure maximum security during the elections. Adamu said that he will ensure ballot box snatchers and other criminal elements, who may attempt to scuttle the polls, are arrested and prosecuted according to the law. He said, the force had taken measures to protect voters, officials as well as election observers during the polls and warned troublemakers to have rethink or be made to face the consequences of their actions.
“The police will be professional, impartial and will create a level playing ground for all parties. “All security personnel were trained by various security agencies, training was also given by Civil Society Organisations and other partners towards free, fair and transparent elections.
“I have spoken to Nigerians. We, on our part, will be professional and impartial.
“We are going to create enabling environment for all the political parties to operate freely without molestation without favouring one party against another,” he said.