Researchers in the United Kingdom (UK) have developed an innovative test that can diagnose sepsis quickly, thereby saving thousands of lives. They made this known in a new study published in the journal ‘Biosensors and Bioelectronics’.As recently described by the researchers at the University of Strathclydey and University of Leeds in UK, the simple, sensitive biosensor device they developed could detect a biomarker of sepsis called interleukin 6 (IL-6). So far, testing of the new device has shown that it can detect increased IL-6 levels in just two-and-a half minutes, the ‘News Medical Life Sciences’ reported. Sepsis is a serious condition resulting from the presence of harmful microorganisms in the blood or other tissues and the body’s response to their presence, potentially leading to the malfunctioning of various organs, shock, and death Sepsis develops when the chemicals the immune system releases into the bloodstream to fight an infection cause inflammation throughout the entire body instead. If sepsis is not quickly treated, a person can suffer multiple organ failure and die. Going by the result of the preliminary testing of the new diagnostic device for sepsis, it shows that it can generate results in minutes, though, the hospital tests that are currently used can take up to 72 hours. The current diagnoses of sepsis can be a complex process involving a blood test and measurements of heart rate, temperature, and breathing. However, in cases of sepsis, timing is key and for each hour that antibiotic treatment is delayed, the likelihood of death increases. The reliance on a combination of lab techniques and clinical judgment can mean diagnosis takes as long as 72 hours. The research team also said the small size of the device makes it ideal not just for initial, point-of-care, testing but also for inserting into the blood vessels of sepsis patients so that they could be continuously monitored. Co-author, David Alcorn, said the innovative technology could have global implications and that being able to prescribe the right antibiotic at the right time for patients with sepsis was extraordinary. Finding the correct drug not only targets care for that patient, but would cut down on needless antibiotics and the reduced chance of antibiotic resistance. “I can definitely see this having a clear use in hospitals, not only in this country, but all round the world,” added Alcorn.