A report from the University of Tasmania in Australia says extreme weather conditions and geopolitical events are liable for sudden losses of agricultural produce. TAIWO HASSAN looks at the effects on Nigeria’s agriculture  Though the impact of climate change on agricultural development in Nigeria cannot be substantiated in all ramifications, experts insist that climate change has brought additional uncertainty and risk to Nigeria’s largely small-scale food system, thereby causing acute food shocks and decline in productivity in food production. Climate change on farming Sadly for Nigeria at a period the Federal Government had charged the populace to embraced farming in agriculture as a way of changing the country’s economic paradigm, it is alarming that the issue of climate change has become the biggest threat to the various investments Nigeria’s agriculture sector. Specifically, many of the investments in Nigeria’s agriculture are meant to make Nigeria food basket of the continent, in line with the Federal Government’s diversification agenda to ensure massive food production as a panacea to the current economic crisis in the country. Basically, the effect of climate change on agric productivity has received international attention with various agric global organizations starting roll-out schemes that would help to combat climate change and global warming in Nigeria and other neighbouring countries. Indeed, these schemes were designed to empower farmers to move to commercial agriculture from subsistence farming in order to realize abundant food productivity in Nigeria. Post-harvest losses The report explained that lack of rainfall and shortage of storage facilities in the country is affecting agric development and putting the country’s food security at risk. “A shortening of the rainy season means a fewer opportunities for planting and the lack of storage facilities have resulted in post-harvest losses to up to 40 per cent,” the report noted. “Climate change could decrease Nigeria’s economic productivity by up to 11 per cent by 2020, and up to 30 per cent by 2050. Agricultural productivity is projected to decline by 10 to 25 per cent by 2080, and by 50 per cent in some northern regions.” Besides, the untold hardships heavy rainfall has brought on crop harvests is enormous, as farmers continue to count their losses and farm investments. Floods Last year, Nigeria recorded heavy downpour in the country. This resulted to flooding, which, consequently, affected many agricultural produce such as crops, livestock and fish, with the Federal Government intervening to support and assure the farmers of compensation. Indeed, the aspect of the disaster on the country’s agricultural produce has been so disturbing following farmers’ outcry that they had lost billions of Naira to the flooding. In fact, last year was not the best of time for the country’s ag-ric sector because of the effects of the floods on farm investments. Particularly, the agricultural production risk imposed by rainfall variability is hindrance to investment in improved agricultural technology and climate resilient agriculture. The continued rainfall caused looming famine in some states, as farmers were sacked from their farmlands by floods and the ability to harvest crops for consumption threatened. Kebbi, Adamawa states The report also stated that those farmers in Kebbi and Adamawa States have been suffering from effect of climate change and global warming on their farms and this has brought about decline in harvest and food productivity “A similar picture emerges in Kebbi and Adamawa States, where about half of farmers spoke of declining harvest, cultivated area and production yields due to climate variability and extreme weather events,” stated the report. “Farmers are losing livestock, crops and vegetables are washed away in flooding and fish do not survive in warmer temperatures. Drought and windstorms are also causing produce losses. These signify a loss of livelihood for these farmers.” Food shocks However, one of the most interesting aspects of the report was its findings that food shocks, or sudden losses of crops, livestock or fish, due to the combination of extreme weather conditions and geopolitical events such as war, increased from 1961 to 2013. Researchers at The University of Tasmania in the report noted that it saw a steady increase in shock frequency over each decade with no declines. The report, published in Nature Sustainability, said that protective measures are needed to avoid future disasters.The authors studied 226 shocks across 134 countries over the last 53 years and, unlike previous reports, examined the connection between shocks and land-based agriculture and sea-based aquaculture. “There seems to be this increasing trend in volatility,” said lead author Richard Cottrell, a PhD candidate in quantitative marine science at the University of Tasmania in Australia. “We do need to stop and think about this.” Extreme weather events are expected to worsen over time because of climate change, the report said, and when countries already struggling to feed their populations experience conflict, the risk of mass-hunger increases. The researchers found that about one quarter of food resources are accessed through trade and many countries could not feed their populations without imports, making them particularly vulnerable to food shocks of trading partners. As the frequency of shocks continues to increase, it leaves what Cottrell called “narrowing windows” between shocks, making it nearly impossible to recover and prepare for the next one. Smart farming The report said trade-dependent countries must find ways to store food in preparation for inevitable shocks elsewhere. Countries must invest in “climate-smart” practices such as diversifying plant and animal breeds and varieties and enhance soil quality to speed recovery following floods and droughts, the report said. “We need to start changing the way we produce food for resiliency,” Cottrell said, adding that he had yet to see much action being taken by wealthy foodproducing countries. “Because we are going to see a problem.” Last line With the report findings, there is urgent need for government to look for a lasting solution to curb the effects of extreme weather conditions on food crop, livestock and fish in Nigeria to ensure food sufficiency and consumption.