Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Logara/Umuohiagu Ward of Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State have been thrown into mourning following the murder of their ward chairman, Mr. Ifeanyi Ozoemena.
Ozoemena was shot dead on Tuesday night by some assailants.  The slain party chairman, who hailed from Umuokeada Logara, was said to have been killed in his house barely two hours after he had hosted a well-attended ward meeting of the party in preparation for the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections.
The deceased, a father of three, was killed about 9p.m. when the gunmen stormed his house and shot him point-blank on the head and belly before fleeing.  Community sources said the killers had come in a red Highlander SUV and had patrolled the area for hours before attacking Ozoemena.  Narrating her experience, his widow said the killers came when she was having dinner with her husband and called him out of the house through a young boy in the compound.
She said that her husband went out to see who was looking for him and did not come back alive.  She said: “After the meeting and people had dispersed, we went in to eat and it was while we were eating between 8.30p.m. and 9p.m. that a ‘small’ boy in the compound came and called my husband that he had visitors.
“My husband went out to see the person and after staying for some time I went out to know who came to see him only to notice that one of the visitors was dragging him on the trousers. I tried to question why he was being held that way, one of the visitors brought out gun and shot him on his side through his ribs.
“Then they dragged him outside the compound and gave him the final gunshot on the forehead and belly and he died instantly. The killers zoomed off. I shouted but no one came to his rescue rather the neighbours fled into hiding on hearing the gunshots.” Wailing profusely, Mrs. Ozoemena, who is nursing a baby, called on the APC and government at all levels and security agencies to fish out the killers of her husband and bring them to book.
A police inspector, who ran into the killers during attack, was beaten to coma and was still fighting for his life at an undisclosed hospital.
The Logara community had in the last week been under siege by men of the underworld who have been prowling unrestrained.
Only last weekend, a young girl from Awogwu village in Logara community was murdered in cold blood by persons suspected to be ritual killers after raping her. Her assailants made away with parts of her body and pants. Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Logara/Umuohiagu Ward of Ngor Okpala LGA, Imo State have been thrown into mourning following the gruesome murder of their ward chairman, Mr Ifeanyi Ozoemena who was shot dead Tuesday night by unknown gunmen. The slain party chairman who hails from Umuokeada Logara,… In "News" For many people, the ward congresses of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has come and gone, but that is not for Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, who seems to have been taught bitter lessons of politics by those opposed to his succession plan, STEVE UZOECHI reports   It… In "Politics" Following developments from the May 5, 2018 ward congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State, it is evident that these are trying times for Governor Rochas Okorocha. The governor, who is believed to be quite skilled in the game of party politics, was left guessing by… In "News"