 Butchers in Lagos State have said that they will not slaughter cows on the election days, saying the reason is to enable them discharge their civic responsibility of voting in the elections, as well as observe the restriction of movement order announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
They urged Lagosians to make do with what is remaining with what will remain from Tuesday as they will slaughter enough on Friday to last consumers till Sunday.  This development came as some itinerant meat sellers spoken to by Sunday Telegraph at Cele, Ikotu and Iyana-Ipaja markets on Tuesday, complained bitterly over the restriction, which will according to the INEC, will remain till 3:00 pm on every election day, means that sellers will be out of business for two days.  Agbola Temidayo who hawks beef at Cele Market, said the beef they will buy on Friday will be going bad by Saturday evening when the no movement order will be relaxed. “Not many people like to buy overnight meat because once you bring it out from the fridge; it will not last long in the open before starts to go bad. We sell such type of meat late at night and it is normally sold at give-away price to minimize loss. Where will I get money to buy fuel for the fridge to preserve meat for two days, when I know that I will later sell it at a loss,” he said.  Also, Dele Animashan, who sells goat meat, said that it is not only those that; are selling cow meat that are effected, “we will won’t be able to kill goat till Monday.“ “I don’t have a fridge to preserve meat for two days, so I have make sure that I sell everything I kill on Friday, not minding how much I lose.” He said that people should have been allowed to go about their normal business after casting their votes.  Meanwhile, cattle dealers at the popular Oko Oba Abattoir and Lairage Complex, Agege; Agbo Malu, Ajegunle, and Alaba Rago Livestock Market, all in Lagos State, told our correspondent that they will slaughter enough cows on Friday that would take care of the state’s need for Saturday and Sunday. Chairman of Myetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria at Oko Oba, Agege, Alhaji Ado Muhammed, assured that there is no need for Lagosians to panic that there will be lack of beef on the election days.  “We will be ready to kill more cows on Friday and we expect that our customers will be ready to take it off our hands. You know that most of out customers are small people, some don’t have refrigerator to preserve their beef, and moreover there is no power supply for the refrigerators.
So consumers will manage because as Nigerians, we will go out to vote on Saturday and don’t forget that there is no movement order, so we won’t operate on Saturday and the following day will be Sunday.” Asked if one the reasons why they will not work on Saturday is the fact that most youths that work for them have departed to the North, he said: “the boys who travelled home went to cast their votes there because that is where they registered, “but those of us that registered in Lagos didn’t travel and we are voting here, but that cannot effect our business it is only the no movement order will effect our customer moving from here (the market) to their destinations.” Also speaking, the Secretary of Myetti Allah in Alaba Rago in the Iba Local Council Development Area of Lagos State, Alhaji Shehu Aminu said they will turn out en-mass to vote on Saturday, adding that there will not be slaughtering of cow in the market that day. “We are going to vote, everybody need to go and vote. It is just for one day. On Monday we shall go back to business. People can eat what is remaining on Friday because they cannot everything and we are not increasing price.” Alhaji Isa Saidu, who is the head of the Cattle Dealers in the market, said that they will slaughter one or two cows for those making suya around the area in the evening on Saturday, but will commence normal business on Monday. He called on Lagosians to buy on Friday. “Those who cannot buy on Friday will still see meat on Saturday evening to buy, because the sellers don’t sell everything, so people don’t need to worry at all,” he said.