The Chairman of Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay, has said that there was a provision of the law that covered enforcement officer who gun down anyone attempting to snatch ballot boxes during the upcoming elections. Sagay, in a statement, said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s warning that anyone caught snatching ballot boxes during elections would be shot was a timely and benevolent advice. Sagay, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria said that security or arresting official was allowed to use such force as may be reasonably necessary in securing the arrest. He said: “The controversy arising from the presi-dent’s warning that anyone snatching ballot boxes or violently disrupting the coming elections (23rd February 2019 and 9th March 2019) may be doing so at the risk of his life is uncalled for. It is a very timely and benevolent advice. “In the first place, anyone not planning to snatch ballot boxes or disrupt the election process has nothing to worry about. If it is assumed that those expressing anger and dismay in the media are not planning to commit any of these offences, then why take panadol for someone else’s headache? “Many angry critics have declared the statement illegal. But have they done the necessary research? “It is true that under Section 118 paragraphs (f) (i)(j) of the Electoral Act 2010, destroying or removsepsis,ing ballot papers is liable on conviction to 2 years imprisonment only. This by implication applies to anyone who disrupts the voting process in any way. “But the matter cannot end there. What if the culprit starts running away with the ballot box and other voting materials? The security agencies and even the ordinary citizens are entitled by law to chase after him with the intention of apprehending him and recovering the materials. “Now the critical factor is what level of force can be applied to stop him. Section 261 of the Criminal Code provides: “261. It is lawful for a person who is engaged in the lawful execution of any sentence, process or warrant, or is making any arrest, and for any person lawfully assisting him, to use such force as may be reasonably necessary to overcome any force used in resisting such execution or arrest. “Thus, such a person can intentionally be shot dead, only if the penalty for his offence is 7 years and above. The security or arresting official is allowed to use such force as may be reasonably necessary in securing the arrest. “If the ballot box snatcher has fleeter foot (i.e., faster) than the security men, reasonable force to stop and arrest him, could include shooting his legs to stop him. “It is instructive to note that such a person can bleed to death from his leg wounds, if urgent medical attention is not provided for him. One other question arising is this: if the Security Officer trying to aim for the legs, misses the legs and hits the chest instead, is that an offence?”