The Chairman, Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU), Ladoke Akintola University Teaching Hospital (LAUTECH), Osun State, Mr. Morenikeji Adeleye, on Thursday decried the discrimination and injustice which its members were being subjected to in the state. Adeleye, who spoke in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Osogbo, called on the Federal Government, the Federal Ministry of Health and other stakeholders in the health sector to address the ugly situation generating concerns. According to him, the union is tired of the discrimination going on in the sector and the injustice which had subjected their members to untold hardship. He noted that the no-work no-pay policy used against its members by the hospital management was never used against members of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). He called for the payment of their salary arrears of April and May, 2018, and January to date. “Recently the medical practitioners were paid their salary arrears and the JOHESU members were left behind for unknown reasons,” Adeleye said. The JOHESU chairman further said the union had been discussing some internal issues with the management of LAUTECH, including the “ganishie” money, which had not been released. He said promotion from CONHESS 14 to CONHESS 15 had also not been conducted for JOHESU members which indicated that they could not get to the pick of their career as directors. As the ongoing strike embarked upon by the Joint Health Sector Unions, (JOHESU), enters Day three, the leadership of the union has said no level of intimidation or sack threat would deter its members from driving home their demands. The union disclosed that the strike has been code named and… In "News" ...As Ebola’s threat hangs in the air   The strike declared by the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) in the past four weeks has crippled care services in many public hospitals across the federation, leaving patients groaning. A quick resolution of the differences between JOHESU and the medical doctors will… In "Health" As Health Workers under the auspices of Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) yesterday began an indefinite strike nationwide, activities at many of the federal hospitals were paralysed, leaving many patients seeking care stranded. Among facilities where operations were paralysed include the ever busy National Hospital Abuja, the University of… In "News"