Operatives of the State Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) Ikeja, Lagos State Police Command, have arrested three suspects for allegedly invading Equitable Estate, Egbalere-Ikorodu area of the metropolis and robbing residents.
The suspects – Olaseun Ishiaka, Mufutawo Aleshinloye and Ganiyu Rabiu – were arrested on January 5, 2018.
The state Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, said: “We received information from people that some robbers, who specialised in invading the estate, stormed it again in a Nissan Xtera SUV with registration No AJJ 281 DC, which had earlier been snatched from a victim and started robbing residents.
“The suspects, on sighting the detectives, drove off and were chased by the police. In the process, the robbers abandoned the vehicle at Itaelewa Junction, Ikorodu of the state and escaped. The abandoned vehicle, which was later recovered, was inspected and some exhibits, left behind in the car by the robbers, were collected. These exhibits led to the arrest of Olaseun Isiaka who confessed to have committed the crime. He led operatives in the arrest of other two members.”
The following items were recovered from the hoodlums; a cut-to-size locally-made double-barrelled gun with five unexpended cartridges, one inverter current generator, stabilizer, pressing iron, cutlass, three wristwatches, one Samsung S8 phone and Nissan Xtera SUV with registration number AJJ 281 DC.
In another development, police arrested three other suspects for allegedly robbing a businessman and his customers in Badagry area of Lagos.
Imohimi said: “The hoodlums, who operated with a motorcycle, on sighting the operatives, opened fire. However, the hoodlums were subdued by the superior fire power of the police operatives. The operatives arrested three of the robbers on Gbagi Bridge, while others dived into the river and escaped.”
The three suspects are Clark Chidiebere (24), Ibrahim Fasasi (21) and Abiodun Fasasi (25).
Items recovered from them are one cut-to-size double-barrelled gun, one cut-to-size single-barrelled gun with five live cartridges and one unregistered Bajaj motorcycle.