Apparently pushing for free, fair and credible elections, lawyers at the weekend offered tips on how to tame buying of votes, one of the menaces associated with electoral malpractice in the country during polls. FOLUSO OGUNMODEDE writes   Worried by new device masquerading in vote-buying and an alleged sale of permanent voter’s cards (PVCs) ahead of Saturday’s presidential election, lawyers have offered tips on how vote-buying and other electoral malpractices would be curbed with a view to making the elections relatively free, fair and credible.
They were unanimous that there was the need for the electoral umpire—the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the major stakeholders to continually engage electorate on dangers inherent in exchanging vote for money. Besides, they asked INEC and other anti-graft agencies to monitor illicit financial flow from politicians and their agents if next week general election must near free and fair elections in the country.
Their worry came barely 48 hours after Acting-Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibahim Magu, decried increasing wave of illicit financial flows and vote- buying ahead of the general election.
The lawyers, however, while baring their minds on vote-buying with New Telegraph Law at the weekend said the only way out of the problem was for INEC and major stakeholders to continually engage the voting population on the dangers inherent in exchanging their votes for money.
This, they said that notwithstanding denials by some political parties of plans to engage in vote-buying ahead of the elections, continuous voter education was the only way out of the problem.
For instance, a titled chief and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mike Ahamba said awareness should be done from the ward level for it to be effective.
He said: “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should continue to impress on the people that whoever sells his Permanent Voter Card (PVC) sells his future and that of his children. It has to be drawn into people’s head and this should be at the ward level. “Unfortunately for us, we share most of this information on television when there was no light. All these television adverts on vote-buying did not get to the people in the village and these are the same set of people that usually vote.
“However, in the alternative, INEC officials can be moving round the wards to educate people on what they stand to lose when they collect money from politicians in exchange for vote. The stakeholders in these communities should also make it a point of duty to talk to people on the dangers inherent in selling their votes. This is what I am presently doing in my own ward now.”
Seyi Sowemimo(SAN) also believes that only continuous voter education was the only way out of the problem.
“The vote-buying may not necessarily occur when people are queuing up for voting. It is going to be difficult for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to permanently stop vote-buying.
“However, what I think can be done is for INEC to continue to educate people on the need for them to stop collecting money from politicians. Meanwhile, the alarming level of poverty in the country does not help the situation.
“Continuous voter education can go a long way in reducing the menace. People should be made to realize that by collecting any money from politicians, they are mortgaging their future. People should also be made to know that when they collect money from politicians and vote a wrong candidate to power, their sufferings will be multiplied. Talks like these will surely dissuade people from collecting money from politicians”, Sowemimo said.
Dr. Biodun Layonu (SAN) was also not different.
He said: “Unless the level of people’s education increased, we may not get any solution to the problem. This is the only thing that can offer lasting solution to the menace. People should be made to know that their vote is far higher than no matter how much was offered to them by politicians.
“When it all started, politicians were handing over cash to people at polling centres. Later, money was being transferred to people’s account. We don’t want the tactics to be employed in the forthcoming elections. So, I think the whole issue boils down to high poverty and illiteracy level.
“Therefore, there is an urgent need to sensitize Nigerians, particularly the voting populace on the need to desist from collecting money in exchange for vote.
“As far as I am concerned, it is poverty that will make someone to think he is better off collecting N5, 000 from a politician. A well-educated person will not collect such money from anyone in order to part with his vote. But I have the fear that this is going to be with us for a while until we probably change the voting system to electronic system.”
To Mr. Emeka Okpoko (SAN), the nation would overcome the menace once the right message was passed to the voting populace.
“It is about educating the voting masses. People should be made to know that if they vote rightly, it will positively affect the economy and their future.
“At the point, the voting populace realizes that nothing should make them to mortgage their future, then, we will overcome the menace of vote-buying. INEC and all other stakeholders in the election has a big role to play in this issue”, the silk said.
A law lecturer, Dr. Sidi Abdulraheem said “what is, however, novel about it in recent times is the brazenness of buyers and sellers. Physical cash, basic commodities such as rice, vegetable oil are routinely distributed at virtually all political parties’ periodic meetings and rallies.
“A political party’s annual, biennial or triennial convention serves as another ground for the distribution of cash. So, the highest bidder holds the winning streak. Such is the stark reality of the Nigerian brand of democracy; purposely and ultimately to sway would-be voters.
“It is an entrenched political party policy and Nigerians are well aware of the culture. Pathetically, the ravaging material poverty among the masses in the country has notoriously and unfortunately assisted in spreading it to such a disbelieving proportion, reflecting the obvious disconnection of the electorate from their representatives.
“Had the latter been interfacing with their community and have confidence in quality representation built overtime, the criminal exchange between voters and candidates would not have arisen. Redressing the ugly trend is not a rocket science. Enabling the legal framework as handed to the Independent National Electoral Commission; (Electoral Act 2010) is one of the keys to putting a check to it. The agency, if properly weaned from the remote influences of influential contenders, can apply and enforce the proviso.
“Also, the teaching and learning of democratic civic political culture comes in handy. In other climes where genuine tenets of democracy are rooted, the feat chiefly rotates on the fulcrum of systematic and sound education of citizens.
“From classrooms at various levels of learning through to the advanced stage of institutional periodic circulation of information, electorates are constantly inundated with political education content, thereby enriching citizens’ understanding of expected conducts and roles in democratic environment.”
Convener of Vote Wisely, Abayomi Awosika, noted that one of the ways in which vote-buying was effective was that people had their phones to confirm that they had voted for party A or B.
He said: “To curb such, you will need to ensure that this does not happen. If people cannot confirm how a person voted, I wonder how those that are giving out the money can take the risk. So, you need to remove the element of confirmation, which is the mobile phone.
“Although you cannot stop people from taking money; in fact, money can be sent through bank accounts to individuals, the risk there is that when you do that, you have to get them to swear, which is a more complex process. However, what we are seeing is not just vote-buying.
“In Osun State for instance, you can see the kind of negotiations introduced by political parties after the suspended governorship election. This too is a form of vote. Unfortunately, vote-buying is being encouraged at the highest level of government. I think what should be done is to criminalize the act; it is a form of rigging.”
A member of the Federation of International Women Lawyers (FIDA), Mrs. Ayoola Oluseguno, said that vote-buying and selling had become a new thriving industry that especially during elections.
She said: “This is sad and it is giving Nigeria a bad name in the eyes of people in other climes. We need to curb this in order to prevent our democracy from being hijacked by corrupt politicians who are desperate to buy their ways into power.
“To curb this, we need to address the issue of poverty. There is acute poverty in Nigeria now and I believe that is why Nigeria is now ranked very high in poverty index. Poor people don’t see anything wrong in selling their votes because they need to survive before they can think about democracy.
“People say it openly without shame that they would vote for whoever gave them money and you can imagine how bad the situation has become. Some people see N5, 000 which they are promised as something very big but you cannot blame them because they have been impoverished and they need the money to meet some immediate needs.
“But we have laws against vote buying and selling and it attracts imprisonment and an option of fine or both depending on the discretion of the judge. I believe that if this is enforced and some people are made scapegoats, it will deter others from engaging in it.
“I believe some were arrested in Ekiti State and they are still in court; I also heard that some were arrested in Osun State as well. If these people are found guilty and they are punished according to the law, I can tell you that it will serve as deterrent to others. They will now weigh the gains and the pains and decide on whether to take the risk and go to jail if caught or take the N5,000 on offer. But the real issue to address is poverty”.
Chiwendu Ugochukwu said “when you look at Section 124 of Electoral Act, it is specific on that. But I discover that recently, people concentrate on buying vote with money alone. Meanwhile, it is not limited to that. Take for example, what was alleged to have happened in Osun State.
“Many people believe that the supplementary election did not take place the way it ought to. When you observe people negotiating with the Osun State governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party, Omisore, it could be argued that such is another means of buying votes. That may be seen as an undue influence and coercion which are things that are fully discussed in Section 124 of Electoral Act.
“If vote-buying must be stopped, conscious efforts and strategies must be activated. The Independent National Electoral Commission had tried its best by making it impossible for the buyer to get access to what he is buying and the sellers, getting access to what is being sold by creating that cubicle. Politicians will never buy a vote from somebody they are not sure will cast his vote for them. For that reason when it is made difficult for politicians to see evidence that one voted for them, vote buying could be eradicated or greatly reduced, but it is step by step. Thank God, the way we were in some past elections, we have moved away from that state. We should ensure that voters are not allowed to go with evidence of who they voted for.
“Hunger, poverty, and lack of awareness or enlightenment could be factors boosting vote buying. People should be empowered to have self-worth and human dignity.
“However, some believe that no matter how rich one is, if one does not have dignity, such person will always ask for more. The value system in the society has fallen. People steal money from the public treasury and yet people clap them. You can see the level the value system in the society had fallen! INEC should continue to ensure that the buyers of votes are not allowed to access the ballot papers already used during voting.
“It is also important for INEC to ensure that apprehended vote buyers and sellers and other arrested electoral offenders were prosecuted. Once offenders are caught, it is the responsibility of INEC to prosecute them. Once they can prosecute them, vote-buying will reduce.
“We also need massive education and reorientation. Reorientation is critical because over the years, that has been completely eroded in our families and in schools.
“We must go back to re-establishing our values which places emphasis on transparency and honesty; that is what we need because it is critical for us to have a conscience.
“If we begin to talk about vote buying now, these are voluntary things that people do; they may accept, they may decide not to accept, but we are saying that government must be responsible for re-orientation. That is why I think we should go back to the basics.” Yakubu: We don't sell, buy votes •Saraki, Dogara warn against malpractices   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, said that it had introduced a new measure on ballot paper handling at polling units to check vote buying in the 2019 general elections. The Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood… In "Politics" Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Yakubu Dogara, has condemned the distribution of cash to the public very close to general elections by public officials, saying no matter how noble the intent may be, such endeavors amount to vote buying and inducement, which is a clear case of… In "News" I have the pleasure of welcoming you all to this one-day Public Hearing on ‘Vote Buying and Improving Electoral Processes in Nigeria’, organised by the Joint Committee on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The period we are in now puts Nigeria in a delicate situation where Africa and the entire… In "Opinions"