Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen has on Wednesday night kidnapped the 12-year-old son of the Chaplain of Plateau State Polytechnic, main campus in Barkin Ladi local government area of Plateau state. New Telegraph gathered that the chaplain of the Plateau State Polytechnic, Heipang in Barkin Ladi Rev. Andrew Dido and his family were in their house Wednesday evening when three armed men invaded the house and demanded money. When the family were unable to produce any money, the armed men resorted to the abduction of Rev. Dido’s 12-year-old son, Kim Andrew Dido and took him away. The Police Public Relations Officer Plateau State Command DSP Tyopev Matthias Terna in a Press statement signed issued to Journalists in Jos confirmed the kidnapper of the Pastors Son said the command has raised a rescue team that is currently on the trail of the kidnappers. “On 20/2/2019 at about  1215hrs, the Plateau State Police Command received an information from Pastor ANDREW DIDO, the Chaplain of Plateau Polytechnic Heipang, in Barkin Ladi LGA that at about  2040hrs, unknown gunmen broke into his quarters in the institution and Kidnapped his twelve (12) years old son Kim Dido to an unknown destination. He further stated that the kidnappers also took his Handset with phone number  (08036044144). “On the receipt of the information, the Commissioner of Police Plateau State Command, Jos CP Isaac Akinmoyede directed the DPO of Barkin Ladi Division to beef up security in the institution. According to him the CP also raised a rescue team that is currently on the trail of the kidnappers “CP Akinmoyede personally visited the family of Dido and the Management of Plateau Polytechnic this morning 21/02 /2019 and assured them of the Command’s determination to rescue the boy and to beef security in and around the school. He calls on Members of the public to volunteer information that will lead to the timely rescue of the boy and arrest of the perpetrators of this criminal act. New Telegraph investigation revealed that the Chaplain was said to have given them all the money in his possession before they forcefully abducted his first child Kim, to an unknown location. However, as at the time of filling this reports, the kidnappers are yet to make any demands so far after the abduction however the family is pleading with them to release the child back to them alive. …kill four others, raze 95 houses   Armed men believed to be herdsmen have killed at least eight persons in attacks on communities in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State. They also burnt 95 houses. Among those killed is a pastor of the Church of Christ in Nations… In "Metro and Crime" A Pastor of Church of Christ in Nation (COCIN) LCC Abonong, Foron in Barkin Ladi LGC of Plateau State, Rev Adamu Gyang Wurim, alongside his wife and three children have been burnt alive by suspected herdsmen. The church was also burnt down. The suspected herdsmen also killed two persons close to… In "News" …more bodies still being recovered  Govt imposes curfew   It was indeed a black weekend as the blood of innocent women, children and men, flown like a river when the herdsmen launched coordinated attacks on Plateau State. At press time, over 110 bodies of the victims had been recovered,… In "Metro and Crime"