 Ahead of the elections, the political terrain has been awash with rallies and campaigns and in some cases arrests and intimidations in parts of the country. The case has been even very disturbing in Akwa Ibom State.
According to one report, at least 21 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, including candidates in the forthcoming polls and their supporters have been allegedly penciled down for arrest and detention by the police, allegedly on the orders of All Progressives Congress (APC).
An organisation, the Integrated Legal Defense Centre (ILDC), chaired by Barr. Andem Ndem, which made the allegation, said the plots by the opposition APC in Akwa Ibom State to intimidate, detain and harass members of the PDP ahead of the forthcoming general elections have been exposed.
The ILDC, a department in the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s campaign organisation, Divine Mandate, however, took the case to court, urging it to stop arrest and intimidation of PDP members, in order to shut them off before and during the elections.
Hence, Justice Ekaete Obot sitting in High Court No 2, Uyo, issued an order of interim injunction restraining the Inspector-General of the Police, Commissioner of Police Akwa Ibom State Command and APC from further arresting, detaining, harassing and intimidating members of PDP in the state.
Respondents in the case are the Inspector-General of Police, Akwa Ibom State Commissioner Police and the All Progressives Congress before the court, seeking the enforcement of the fundamental human rights to freedom of expression, movement, peaceful assembly and association as well as personal liberty for members and supporters of the PDP in the state.
Andem listed those whose names have been penciled for arrest and detention ahead of the election to include the State Chairman of PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo, Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and PDP flag bearer for Etinan Federal Constituency seat, Rt. Hon. Barr. Onofiok Luke, House of Assembly member for Nsit Atai and candidate of the party for re-election, Hon. Mark Esset; member for Ibesikpo Asutan State Constituency and party candidate, Hon. Aniekan Uko; candidate for Nsit-Ubium State Constituency, Hon. Otobong Bob; Chairman, Uyo Local Government Area, Hon. Imo Okon and the candidate for the House of Assembly seat for Uyo State Constituency, Hon. Anietie Eka.
Others in the list include, Ofonime Sunday Frank, Emmanuel Okon Jackson, Ikpe Matthew Umoh, Stephan Eyo Stephen, Ndifreke Emmanuel Umana, Ekomobong Okure, Idongesit Udo Udo Akpan, Simeon Udousoro, Udeme Okure Otuekong Uduak Ekpeowo, Emem Dennis Asikpo, and Uduak Edim.
Recalled that the APC Leader in the state, Senator Godswill Akpabio and other chieftains of the party have severally been quoted to have boasted that the election in Akwa Ibom would witness a ‘WarSaw’ strategy. The APC has been boasting of federal might, they have reportedly admitted that the only way they would capture the state for APC is using ‘federal might’.
To buttress his claims, Barr. Andem said that findings by the legal team that visited the police station showed that majority of the detainees at the police headquarters in Ikot Akpan Abia were supporters of the PDP who were arrested and thrown into detention on trumped up charges by the APC in connivance with the police.
“You cannot just dump people in cell and allow them to rot there. We were able to secure the release of that gentleman from Ibiono who was arrested by the police on the orders of APC agents,” Andem said.
APC spokesman in the state, Hon. Eseme Eyiboh could not be reached. But a chieftain of the APC in the state said the allegations were untrue and urged the PDP members in the state to conduct themselves according to the rules in order to be on the good side of the law. “They should not drag us into their matter. The police are doing their job as law enforcement agents and anyone who is on the side of the law has nothing to fear,” he said.