The Nigeria Police, yesterday, announced the arrest of a total of 128 people over alleged electoral offences committed during last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections across the country. The alleged offences, according to the police, include homicide-related crimes, vote trading, ballot box snatching, impersonation, malicious damage, amongst others. The police added that 38 assorted weapons as well as a cache of explosives were also recovered. Force Public Relations Officer, Mr. Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, expressed satisfaction with the conduct of personnel during and after the polls. “A total of 128 persons were arrested across the country for various electoral offences ranging from homicide-related crimes, vote trading, ballot box snatching, impersonation, malicious damage, amongst others; while 38 assorted weapons and a cache of explosives were also recovered. “Consequently, the IGP has directed the Special Election Investigation Team (SEIT) to immediately commence discrete investigation of all security related infractions during the election and ensure that all persons found culpable are brought to book in accordance with the law,” Mba said. According to the FPRO, “the Inspector General of Police, Ag IGP M.A Adamu, has commended Nigerians for the massive turn-out and the largely orderly conduct of most Nigerians in the Saturday, 23rd February 2019 presidential/ National Assembly elections. The IGP also commended personnel of the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies for the sacrifices made towards the successful conduct of the elections. “Notwithstanding a few unfortunate incidents, including loss of lives recorded during the election, the IGP hails the exercise as a generally successful one. “The IGP has however expressed deep concerns over continuous use of hateful and inflammatory comments capable of inciting Nigerians against one another, especially by politicians and their followers. He therefore warns that while the Force is not in the business of censoring Nigerians or abridging their constitutional rights of freedom of speech, it will not hesitate to rein in the full wrath of the law on any person(s) found wanting in this regard.” Mba added: “In a similar vein, the IGP, while noting that only the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is authorised by law to announce election results, warns all those, especially the social media users, engaging in unlawful announcement and dissemination of election results to desist forthwith or be ready to face the consequences of their actions. “Meanwhile, the IGP has directed the Zonal AIGs and Command CPs to ensure adequate post-election security arrangement in their Areas of Responsibilities (AORs), with special focus on Collation Centres and other vulnerable points to ensure no breach of peace of any kind is recorded across the country.”