Gover norship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Obong Nsima Ekere, has assured residents of the state that his administration would run an all-inclusive, open and credible government if elected into office. He declared this when Board of Trustees, executives and members of the Akwa Ibom Community Association in the 19 northern states and Abuja, endorsed him as their consensus candidate for the March, 2019 polls.  Ekere, a former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), however, told the people that he had mapped out a sustainable development plan that would involve Akwa Ibom residents from every part of the world.  He noted that his government blueprint had captured the very essence of participatory economic growth, which includeda N20 billion fund for strategic enterprise development, saying that it would be foolhardy to rely on outsiders to develop the state. This was as he added that when experienced indigenes of the state were mobilised, adequately empowered and creatively involved, development would not only come faster, but would be more sustainable.  The APC flag bearer, therefore, urged the people of the state to support the APC because it had the credibility and the experience to deliver the state from under performance, clueless governance and crass ineptitude.  Ekere said: “We are poised to give our people a government that would be responsive, responsible and all inclusive. Our people will be given the opportunity to explore their entrepreneurship skills for job creation and economic empowerment of our people. I thank you for this show of love and support for the APC and I promise that we shall live up to the expectations of the people. “I want to register my sincere gratitude to you for the sacrifices you have so far made and I enjoin you to come to Akwa Ibom State and mobilize the people for a government that would take our dear state to the centre of politics in the country.  As a state, we will gain so much by aligning with the power at the centre. We cannot benefit from playing opposition in a country like Nigeria today.” Earlier, the President of the association, Tom Etim Okon extolled Ekere’s qualities and pledged to support his candidature, even as he described him as a man, who has the requisite experience, and capacity to govern the state. He noted that as a former Deputy Governor, and later the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Ekere performed well to the admiration of all Akwa Ibom people, assuring the APC governorship candidate of the support of members of the association from the 19 northern states and Abuja.