Days after an accident occurred at Tollgate area on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, which reportedly claimed about 18 lives, survivors are still crying for help. About 52 people were involved in the January 29 accident. While 18 people were said to have lost their lives, several others sustained different degrees of injury. It was reported that a trailer carrying iron rods, going from Sango end of the expressway and heading towards Lagos had a brake failure and crashed into several vehicles before ramming into traders by the roadside at the old Tollgate. The fire, which accompanied the crash, burnt many vehicles, ‘shops,’ goods and other valuables. But several days after, the damage wrought by the accident has remained indelible in the minds of survivors, relatives and witnesses. Mr. Charles Obrija, a relative of one of the victims, said his brother, Patrick Obrija, selling phone accessories at the Tollgate was hit by the trailer while trying to escape the accident. Charles said the victim was taken to a private hospital at Oju-Oore where it was confirmed that Patrick’s ankle and left hand were broken. He said: “The hospital I took him to, informed me that Patrick will need to be transferred to a stateowned hospital, Abeokuta. But I can’t take him there because I have no money. We have spent over N100,000 in the course of his treatment. Now we have resorted to local treatment.” Charles added that Patrick had not been able to walk since the incident. A victim, who identified himself as Oluwatoyin, said he was still having pains. He said: “Because of the accident, I have a serious wound on my cheek, my face is swollen and my back and legs hurt.” Oluwatoyin added that he was admitted to the State Hospital, Onipanu, Ota, where he was taken to by officials of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) immediately after the incident. The victim also complained that he had spent a lot of money on treatment and had exhausted his savings. A trader, Mrs. Tinuke, whose goods were destroyed by the accident, said she had to borrow money to restock. According to her, the goods are worth over N200,000. She said: “I can’t afford to sit at home doing nothing. That is why I decided to borrow the money. I pray God to help me so I can refund the money.” A shop owner at the Tollgate, who gave her name as Rasheedat, explained that she was trying to save herself by running but she fell and injured her legs. Rasheedat was taken to a private hospital at the Tollgate where she was treated. She said: “I can’t leave my house as my legs are swollen. I have also spent a lot of money on drugs and other treatment.” Many of the victims called on Nigerians with milk of kindness to give them financial assistance.