Nigerian musician, Seyi Shay, has said her biggest strength as an artist comes from the ability to criticize and edit her own music videos and be part of her entire creative process.
The “Yolo Yolo” singer made this known during an interview with Hip TV, saying she assumes the role of a viewer while watching her videos to remove ‘fake portrayals’ in the video.
“I feel like one of my biggest strength is my video creativity. I am always part of the process, from creativity to editing. I edit like all my videos because I like to look at the videos as a viewer, even my music,” she said, adding: “And I have just been blessed enough to work with directors that let me edit, because I feel like there is a way I want to be portrayed too, and I am pretty good at criticizing myself.
“Like if something looks fake or wack, I will be the first to tell you that looks wack. So one of my biggest strength is definitely my video making quality.
“Sometimes we forget the lyrics, dance routine, sometimes things to don’t go according to plan but I feel like the show must go an all the time, and the sign of a true professional is to carry on performing even when things are falling apart around you.
“Even if the music cuts out or the mic cuts out, I tend to just sing acapella at the top of my voice and get the audience or crowd to join me in the lead. That’s a trick I have learnt out of the bag.” With a measure of fame and fortune today, delectable singer, Seyi Shay, has urged Nigerian singers to fully embrace and not struggle with their identity anymore. According to her, this is on account of the the wave being enjoyed by Afrobeat, the new sound from this part of the world… In "Show Biz" Famous songstress, Seyi Shay, spoke to LANRE ODUKOYA about her recent debut as an actor, her favourite song, as well as plans for the festive season and trying her hands in production in the future.     Doesn’t it unsettle you that you didn’t win any award at this year’s… In "Show Biz" The name Klem or Ikemefuna  Nwamonye doesn't ring a bell to the average Nigerian music lover but hit songs like Sade by Davido, Yolo by Seyi Shay, Nackam by Yemi Alade, Applaudise and Gift by Iyanya are well-known songs.  Meet the serial hit songwriter who has been behind some of your favourite… In "Arts & Entertainments"