The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Jimmy Agbaje, takes a swipe at powers-that-be in the state and vows to make Lagos a better place for all, in this interview with TAI ANYANWU  What informed your recent visit to the Lord’s Chosen Church? I was there because I wanted to be part of the 16th anniversary of the ministry. I came to be part of the revival, don’t forget, I am a Christian first. When you look at the programme of this event ‘From Sorrow to Joy,’ it’s very instructive to listen to testimonies of those who have moved from sorrow to joy. After today, Lagos State and the entire country will move from sorrow to joy.  Some of your supporters have expressed concern that each season you join the gubernatorial race only to disappear afterwards. They insinuate that you do so just to accept settlement. What is your reaction to this? In the first place; I don’t come out every election year. I came out in 2007; I did not come out in 2011 because I didn’t believe that there was need for me to come out. I came out in 2015 when I felt there was a need for me to come out. To say I have been settled, I don’t know what you mean by that. Some alleged that I supply all the medicine to Lagos State. That is not true. Some say I am a government contractor. I don’t supply windows; I don’t do business with either the Federal Government or Lagos State. I am a private person. Again, it is not correct that I don’t do anything between elections. Since 2015, I have been very active politically, in motivating the younger ones to be part of the democratic process in this country. For those who are following the news, you know that I contested for National Chairmanship position of my party.  I believe that as a Christian, we must continue to occupy the space to lead this country and nobody should be discouraged from doing that. I cannot be an offence for one to continue being part of that process. We have played that part in different ways and I have continued to plant and at no time have I rested.  What are your fears about the election? We hope that the agencies responsible for bringing about fair and credible elections will be impartial. So we want to be sure that INEC is going to be fair and balanced and that the security agencies are going to do their work rather than to be seen as a political party or the other. And of course the political class must see this as something that must be done well; and democracy must move forward. We cannot run our democracy based on rigging, it must not be based on violence. It is important that we allow our people to come out and vote. Let the will of the people be done. If they make mistake this time, the next election they have an opportunity to correct it. That is the beauty of democracy. If you vote this way it doesn’t work, you come the other way; and it can only get better to the people.  What is your vision for Lagos State? Lagos has worked much better than it is today. We want a Lagos where the teeming masses of our children can be well educated in public schools, in a way that they can hold their own anywhere in the world. Don’t forget that economies today are technologically driven. We must begin to make our public schools as qualitative as the private schools. There was a time in this country that public schools were better than private schools. Our children are no more going to public schools because the feel there is nothing there. Also, a healthy person is a wealthy person. So we have to address our health sector too. By the time we take away the issues of health and education from the problem of the masses then life will be much better for them. There are other issues for people doing business in Lagos. For instance, non-indigenes want to know that they will feel at home in Lagos. We have to look at such situations. People want to know if they want to set up business in Lagos they want to see government as a partner facilitating their business rather than somebody trying to disturb their business. That will make life better and I believed it will give value for money. We believe that Lagos State has a lot of money; but it is not being spent it well.  On the issue of tankers blocking Lagos roads, what do you hope to do if elected? You could see that when the President visited Lagos to campaign the tankers vanished from the roads. That shows that it is possible to make them vanish. If they can do when the President is coming and when the President goes they bring the tankers back; that is hypocrisy. It is hypocrisy and wicked; it is important that we stop this problem once and for all. Again those that have been there for the past 29 years have done nothing to address the issue. They have been talking about creating parking for tankers since 1999. Twenty years after, the tankers’ park is not yet ready. That means that there is no seriousness to put these trailer people where they should be. It takes political will to make sure that life is made easier for citizens. There are two types of politicians, those who seek power for self and those who seek power for service. I believe there was a time we had the government of Alhaji Lateef Jakande, who sought power for service; we could see that he served the people. There are those that had been there for the past 20 years and they sought power for themselves. You could see that so many things are happening; education is bad, health is bad and there is no water anywhere in Lagos. So what will they say they have been doing with all the money? Lagos is the fifth largest economy. We believe that those that have been there after 20 years have been there for themselves and not for the people.   Would you say that the fight of corruption is real?  We are still at a stage in our country where our value system has gone upside down. In Nigeria today, when you steal you justify the stealing but when somebody else steals you say he is a thief; so we have to get our values right. To that extent I cannot say that the fight against corruption is real. Why because we have not yet defined our community value system. Hence, when I am in power I will catch the thief on the other side. The moment I leave then they will catch me. Because I am in power, I am not a thief. That is why I say the fight against corruption is not yet working. Of course, it is worse in Lagos State because even in the state, we have issues of freedom of information. You are gentlemen of the press you cannot seek information in Lagos State. The best way to fight corruption is to run an open system. If you run an open system, I can ask you how much you are spending and why you are spending it. Today, we don’t know how much Lagos budget is. They give us a figure but it is different from what happens. You don’t know what they spend money on, because we have no access to information. So the first thing in Lagos is to domesticate the Freedom of Information Act and to make it work so that the citizens can ask any question about how the government is being run.  What strategy will you adopt to protect your vote? Our strategy is not for open space, but let me assure you that mistakes of 2015 will be corrected in 2019; those votes will count and we are going to protect them this the me around. We have learnt our lessons. The way I put it is that we won seats in some part of Lagos and the way we won those seats is that we were able to protect those votes. In that same manner, we are going to protect our votes all over Lagos State.  If elected governor what are you going to offer Lagosians? I have told you about education, power and water. We have committed ourselves to putting 1000 megawatts of power in the first 18 months of coming into office; and another 2000 megawatts by the end of four years and that is adding 3000 megawatts to Lagos in an embedded power system. Lagosians, artisans and businesses need about 4000 megawatts of power generally in Lagos. If we are able to add 3000 megawatts to the existing power, then there will be stable electricity in Lagos, there will be ease of doing business in Lagos. Lagos is very business unfriendly, it drives people away, it charges multiple taxes and it charges them levies. These are things we must stop and these are some of the things we said we will do.  