Family members, friends and colleagues yesterday protested the death of Ms. Kafayat Abdul-Azeez, a 25-year-old graduate of Biology, University of Abuja, at Asokoro Hospital, accusing the management of negligence. Since Abdul-Azeez’s death last Saturday, the hospital management and family members have been trading words over the incident. While the protesters alleged that Abdul-Azeez died due to lack of adequate care by doctors and nurses, the management claimed she actually died from multiple complications. The hospital’s Chief Medical Director (CMD), Dr. Uche Afioma, who debunked the claim that the lady died due to negligence from the workers, said an investigative panel had been constituted to unravel the circumstances leading to her death. Afioma said Abdul-Azeez, who was admitted in the hospital on February 14, was given the best attention that a patient deserves. The CMD, however, said that investigation billed to last for two weeks had been initiated to ensure that public confidence in public healthcare system was sustained. She said: “The hospital attended to Kafayat Abdul- Azeez, who actual ly registered with the hospital on the 14 of February, 2019 at 1300 hours at Accident and Emergency Unit. She was seen by the senior medical doctor on duty and who checked and examined and treated her according to the ethical guideline for emergency. “She was also attended to within an hour of admission by a consultant physician and another family physician who manage the Accident and Emergency Unit, all due care was instituted.” The CMD said 24 hours later another consultant also reviewed Abdul-Azeez and managed her until Saturday when she died. Not satisfied with the hospital’s explanation, friends of the deceased, who protested at the hospital, called on government to urgently reform the healthcare system, so as to stem the tide of unnecessary loss of lives in hospitals. One of the protesters, Sarah Dansoho, said Abdul-Azeez would have survived if only the hospital workers had given adequate attention to her. She said: “Today, we are calling for urgent action. We gathered here to seek for explanation, to seek for justice, to ask question; we need answers. We are also calling for government’s attention to the poor healthcare system in Nigeria, and request that they act swiftly to revamp our healthcare system.”