The National Judicial Council (NJC) will, today, decide the fate of the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen and the acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad over separate petitions filed against the duo. The Council had, on January 29, forwarded a petition written against Onnoghen to him for his response, and two separate petitions against Muhammad to him for his response. The Council had then given them seven days to file their responses. When the Council met on Monday, it set up a Committee to consider the responses of the Justices and report back today.  Though, the Council had, on Monday, received another petition written by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against Onnoghen and consequently asked the suspended CJN to reply within seven days. It is, however, not clear at the moment whether the fresh petition by the EFCC will affect the decision of the Council on Onnoghen.  In a related development, the trial of Onnoghen resumes today before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja over alleged non-declaration of assets. This was just as the Chairman of the Tribunal, Danladi Umar, had insisted that suspended CJN must appear in person before him to take his plea in the six-count criminal charge filed against him by the Federal Government. The tribunal is also expected to hear the motion filed by Onnoghen challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal to try him.  It will also hear another application filed by the Federal Government seeking to compel Onnoghen to step aside pending the determination of the suit against him. It is, however, not certain whether the tribunal will equally hear another application filed by Onnoghen asking the tribunal chairman to disqualify himself from hearing the matter over alleged bias. In a similar vein, hearing in the appeal filed by Onnoghen before the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division was stalled yesterday. The three-man panel of the court, led by Justice Abdul Aboki, had on the last adjourned date, fixed yesterday to hear the appeal wherein Onnoghen is challenging the jurisdiction of the tribunal as well as an ex-parte order which suspended him granted by two out of three members of the tribunal. It was learnt that the  members of the panel who are hearing the appeal were not around, and also the appeal was not listed on the cause list. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) yesterday, again, called on the Federal Government to withdraw the charge against Onnoghen. The Bar, in a statement issued by his President, Paul Usoro (SAN) urged the Executive arm of the Federal Government of Nigeria to discontinue the charge against Onnoghen. According to NBA, “First, as widely reported, one of the two petitions against the CJN that is currently before the NJC or Council is an exact replica of the petition that motivated the CCT charge.  The second petition was reportedly presented by the EFCC. “We commend the FGN for adhering to due process by submitting the EFCC petition to the NJC for consideration. In like manner and in adherence to the law and due process, we urge the FGN to discontinue the CCT charge and allow the NJC consider the initial petition, which, as widely reported, has already been responded to by the CJN.  “Second, the Chairman of the CCT, Danladi Umar, in his response to a petition that was written against him and which was forwarded to him by the Federal Judicial Service Commission, states emphatically that he and his Tribunal are answerable and report only to the Presidency, by law and practice.  “He is absolutely correct. An insistence, in the circumstance, on the CJN, the head of an independent arm of the FGN, standing trial before a Tribunal that is under the Presidency and is answerable only to the Presidency, mocks the concept of and completely erodes the independence of the judiciary and the constitutional separation that should exist between the three arms of the FGN.  “It is precisely for this reason that our Constitution created the NJC and we are pleased that the FGN has warmed up to the utilization of that due process, as illustrated by the submission of the EFCC petition to the Council.