Chef Ene Vivian Adaga, a graduate of Biochemistry from Bingham University, Karu, Nasarawa State, turned chef spoke with ANDREW IRO OKUNGBOWA on her first love, cooking and her passion to become a renowned chef in the world  Background Chef Ene Vivian Adaga is of Idoma extraction in Benue State, where she grew up. Educated at Bingham University, Karu, Nasarawa State, where she obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Biochemistry, ordinarily she should be attired in a white overall conducting researches or missing one form of chemical or the other in one of the industrial or biological laboratories but instead, she has chosen another kind of laboratory, food laboratory, to pursue her childhood passion as a chef. With a diploma in Cuisine from Chefs Academy, Abuja, chef Ene, as she is fondly called, heads Soulfood in Abuja, where she is engaged in the pursuit of her lifelong commitment of deepening the science of food culture. She specialises in Nigerian cuisines and continental dishes and gets most of her orders through online while engaging in home delivery. What was growing up like for you and what are the factors that influenced your growing up? Growing up was interesting, my parents were very strict, so, I was quite the focused child always reading and inquisitive. Christianity and prayers influenced my growing up years as well as hard work. My parents were hard workers so that has really influenced me to be serious in all my endeavours. Did you develop the flair for cooking at childhood or at what stage of your life? I developed my flair for cooking from childhood. I was always so interested in recipes and cooking methods. I would watch my mother who is a very good cook always and wished to replicate her cooking methods. So I started cooking very early. Did you enjoyed cooking then or just got acquainted to the chore as a girlchild? I have enjoyed cooking right from when I was a child. I always wanted to prepare a meal and watch people enjoy it especially my dad. What attracted you to becoming a chef? I enjoy cooking and I cook well, so I just wanted to provide an avenue for people to taste my cooking always. How did your journey into the world of journey gastronomy started? It started in 2016. I was actually praying for direction and the idea to commercialise my skills came to me. So, I decided to broaden my knowledge on cooking and learn new things by going to a culinary school. What was the reactions of your parents and family members when you decided to become a chef? Honestly, it was a mixed reaction. My mother and sisters were skeptical at first but I insisted and when they saw it was my passion they became supportive and have been so ever since. Did you then acquired a formal training as a chef? I did. I attended Chefs Academy in Abuja for a couple of months. I took both theoretical and practical classes and I did practical tests and examinations. What was your initial experience as a chef? Since my training I have been running a food delivery and catering business, initially it was a bit of struggle to get people to try my food because people are not very open to trying new things but like they say a trial convinced them. When did you set up soulfood and what was the motivation? Soulfood started in 2017, and it is largely an online business as a good percentage of my clients are from social media. I make all kinds of food but being Nigerian the concentration is mostly on Nigerian soups and cuisine generally. How challenging is it engaging in home delivering? It isn’t that much challenging since I use delivery and logistics companies but then these companies based on demands from other clients delay delivery at times. What are the challenges you encounter as a chef? Market price fluctuations of raw foods, the Nigerian pricing culture. How would you describe Nigerian foods culture? Contrary to how people see it we don’t have a lot of foods in our country. I feel like we don’t explore the full extent of how diverse our foods are. A whole lot of recipes could be made from the staple food, talk less of the less popular food items. Why have we not been able to internationalise our cuisines as the Chinese and others have done? We have a poorly developed tourism sector, when we develop our tourism sector, we will export our meals to the world. Despite this challenge, you can still find Nigerian meals abroad. Also, we need to export our recipes, standardised them so that foreigners can attempt to make them with good results. What is your best Nigerian and continental dishes? For Nigerian dishes, it is fried rice and turkey while for continental dishes it is Chinese fried rice/gravy Would you say cooking as a profession is now becoming accepted by many without the negative people once attached to it? Yes, I would say so. A lot of young people are cooking professionally now. How profitable is food business in Nigeria? I would say it is fairly profitable if it is on a large scale, after all, people must eat and celebrate occasions with food. What advice do you have for youths like yourself aspiring to become a professional chef? I would say make sure it’s your passion and that you really love cooking and people enjoy your food because it involves serious hard work. What are some of the things that you would want the government to do to promote the profession and encourage more people to take to it? Government just needs to create a business friendly environment and develop the agricultural sector as the development of this sector is mainly in the hands of the private sector. What was your first cooking blunder and how did you remedy the situation? Hahaha! It was definitely when I was much younger and so on a particular day I wanted to impress my parents who were both good cooks. I got too enthusiastic and over worked egusi (melon), so its lumps got hard. I remedied it by letting it cook for a longer time so it turned out alright. Would you say that cooking blunder is a common thing in the business? Yes and no! But based on my training and experience I have learnt to cook based on client specifications so that the margin for blunder is drastically reduced. How do you unwind? I unwind with a bottle of wine, a good book and in total silence.   *Chef Adaga will be a regular contributor of recipes and healthy living tips to this page