Kogi State Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba, has raised an alarm over what he described as threat to his life. That is following the withdrawal of his security details on Friday last week. Achuba told journalists in Lokoja, the state capital, yesterday that the Aide de Camp (ADC) to Governor Yahaya Bello, withdrew all the security personnel detailed to him, when he was setting out for a journey from Lokoja to his town for the general election. “I was about to embark on a journey on Friday to my hometown for the general election, when my security details began to withdraw. When I enquired from them on their action, they told me that the ADC to the governor had invited them. All I thought was just for a security briefing, and I asked them to go that I was going to wait till they return.” According to the deputy governor, he waited for several hours for his security men until he was told that his “security men were taken for detention over alleged unlawful possession of arms.” “I put several calls to the police commissioner to inform him of the situation, but he refused to pick my calls. As I speak to you now, my life is not safe. I want to use this medium to cry out to Mr. President, the Inspector-General of Police and other heads of security that my life is in danger. “As I speak to you now, my security details have been withdrawn since on the eve of election day.” The embattled deputy governor, who was visibly frustrated, revealed further that for the past two years, he has not collected any allowance or imprest to run the office, adding that the electricity and tap water connected to his official residence have been cut off. “If you are favoured to be enthroned on the people, fear God and be nice to them; always do the will of the people and when you do these, then you will have no fear on what the people will do to you. All we need for people to follow us is to always show love and concern for them.” Speaking on his alleged move to dump his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Achuba said though he has a lot of friends in PDP, relating with them did not constitute a crime. “If I want to join PDP, I won’t hide it. I will call you all to announce it for everyone to know,” he said. On the allegations of defrauding the state government through contracts, Achuba said he was a deputy governor and not a contractor, adding that there was never a time he supervised any contract talk less of handling a contract. “I have not seen this type of thing in my 22 years of political experience. This is worrisome and very disturbing. And my advice is that security agents should not succumb to individual interests because no amount of intimidation will derail us from standing on the path of the truth. “People must also understand that when you impose yourself on people, you will always not find favour in them. Anyone who forced himself on the people will definitely be dethroned as only God enthrones,” he added.The state Police Commissioner, Hakeem Busari, when contacted, said the matter would soon be resolved, insisting that posting police to government appointees was the sole responsibility of the governor’s ADC. “He (the deputy governor) contacted me and I told him I was going to look into it and I am working on it to know what to do. I want to contact the ADC to the Governor on why the deputy governor’s details were withdrawn. I spoke to the deputy governor this morning and I told him that I was going to do something about it. “There’s no problem. He requested for two extra policemen prior to the withdrawal of his details. I don’t know if those two were given to him before the withdrawal of his details. “We post policemen to Government House, but I think it’s the ADC to Governor who is the person in charge of security at the Government House. He posts them. There is no problem. We will send two policemen there pending when the issue will be resolved,” the police boss explained.