Police in Ogun State have arrested a 47-year-old housewife, Joy Egeonu, for allegedly beating the nephew of her husband to death. The suspect was said to have killed the 11-year-old victim, Chibuike Egeonu, after she suspected he stole her N6,500. It, however, turned out that the missing money was taken by the suspect’s husband and not the deceased. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the arrest yesterday, said the incident occurred last Sunday at Agbado area of the state. Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, disclosed that the suspect also took the boy’s body to Ifo where she hurriedly buried him. He said: “The suspect was arrested following a report by the mother of the deceased, Ijeoma Egeonu, who reported at Agbado Divisional Headquarters that her son who was living with her elder brother and his wife at Opeilu at Agbado was beaten to death by her brother’s wife over an allegation that the boy, Chibuike Egeonu, stole the N6,500 belonging to the said woman. “She stated further that the incident occurred on the 3rd of February 2019 and that the woman took the corpse of the boy to Ifo where she hurriedly buried the boy. “On the strength of the report, the DPO, Agbado Division, CSP Omonijo Olatunji, led his detectives to the scene where the woman was promptly arrested. “On interrogation, the suspect claimed to have suspected the boy as the person who stole her money which prompted her to flog the boy to the point of coma. “She further stated that the boy gave up the ghost while she was taking him to the hospital and that it was later discovered that the missing money was taken by her husband and not the deceased as suspected. She has since taken detectives to where the boy was hurriedly buried.” Oyeyemi added that the Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, had ordered the arrest of the suspect’s husband who allegedly assisted in burying the boy in order to cover the criminal act of his wife. The PPRO also stated that Iliyasu had ordered the immediate transfer of the prime suspect to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation.