President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that he will not change, but remain steadfast in delivering effective leadership if reelected in the February 16 presidential election. He said: “I assure you, I am not going to change. I am going to be consistent, I will remain steadfast.  Anybody who abuses trust will be exposed and he will be dispossessed.” The President stated this while addressing party supporters in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, yesterday, in continuation of his presidential campaigns across the country for the forthcoming general elections. Buhari explained that with the turn out of the crowd at the Aper Aku stadium, he was convinced that the Benue people believed in what his administration was doing to transform Nigeria.  The President noted that through the efforts of his government, the country has made tremendous success in improving the economy as well as tackling the challenge of insecurity in parts of the country and the fight against corruption. “I stand before you to thank you most sincerely for deferring the weather and standing for hours to come and see and listen to us. I am very grateful. “I am convinced that you believe in what we are doing and that you stand to support us even further.  When I came to look for your vote in 2015, I promised three fundamental issues based on our party manifesto. Security, economy and fighting corruption,” he added. The President called on the people to vote overwhelmingly for the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates from the top to the bottom, noting that APC was the only party that could address their plight adequately.  “I will do everything to provide enough security in Benue State to ensure the elections are conducted free and fair; I advise you to also vote all candidates of our party, the APC,” he said. Buhari regretted that the fight against corruption was quite challenging, promising that he cannot relent, but remain resolute and steadfast until the battle would be won. According to him, “We will do roads, railways and provide electricity with monies recovered from looters.”  Addressing the crowd, Senator George Akume said that President Buhari is one of the few Nigerians who does not like amassing wealth. “He had opportunity to make money as Head of State, Minister of Petroleum and military administrator of North-East, but did not amass wealth,” he said.  The former Benue State governor assured the President that the people of Benue have cordial relationship with the Fulani and will sustain the relationship if the candidate of the APC in Benue, Emmanuel Jime, is voted as governor in the March 2nd election. He said Buhari would record 70 per cent of the votes in the coming elections. Akume said Benue stands for free, fair and credible election. National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, took a swipe at former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his opposition to the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari. Tinubu said no amount of opposition from the former president will prevent Buhari from winning the 2019 election.  … In "News" Indication emerged yesterday that the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) may adopt President Muhammadu Buhari as its presidential candidate for the 2019 general elections. The party’s National Chairman, Victor Oye, revealed this at a press briefing in Abuja. Speaking at the occasion, the APGA helmsman said at the appropriate time,… In "News" Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to re-present himself for election after his first four years term in 2019. The Benue State governor, who met yesterday with President Buhari behind closed doors at the presidential villa, said it would be plausible for the country if… In "News"