 As the year unfolds with apprehension over the economy, the Association of Nigerian Journalists and Writers of Tourism (ANJET) has tasked the government at all levels and the organised private sector (OPS) to pay close attention to tourism development and promotion.
The body of travel journalists, writers and bloggers, lamented that despite the vast potential and comparative advantage that the country has in tourism that the government has continued to pay lip service to the sector, with least investment.
ANJET said that the nation is not reaping from the economic benefits of tourism as a leading sector while serious minded countries who have tourism the bedrock of their economy are benefiting richly from it following the all – time record of performance over the years.
Tourism is a huge revenue and employment generator with $7.6 trillion revenue (about 10% of global GDP) and 277 million jobs; representing one out of every 11 jobs in the world in 2014. Last year international tourist arrivals reached 1.4 billion mark, amounting to six per cent growth, ahead of 2020 projection.
Africa countries recorded mere 67 million tourists with no one sure of the numbers that visited Nigeria because there is no verifiable statistics to that effect. Besides, at the local level, less than 10 percent of Nigerians travelled for tourism related activities while many tourism outfits closed shops due to lack of patronage and domestic airlines flew fewer passengers resulting from exorbitant fares and operational issues associated with domestic airlines.
To stem this tide, the travel writers are calling on the federal government to focus more on tourism. Therefore, it has called for the defunct Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which presently is lumped with the Information and Culture Ministry to be rejuvenated if the country ever hopes to make headway in the development of the sector.
When created, they said the ministry should be manned by a tested professional, with vast experience in business and who understands the mix of tourism as a business and not a socio – cultural event as it has been the case with the ministry.
According to ANJET, to succeed, the ministry should with the Organised Private Sector (OPS) to produce a tourism blue print and policy for the country as well as among others tinker with the National Tourism Master, which since it was reviewed last year many operators said is not in the public domain, thereby making it difficult for them to know the economic trust of the reviewed document.
Also, the tourism writers want to see the Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC) come out of it closet to take on fully its statutory responsibilities of developing, marketing and promoting Nigeria tourism with attention on domestic tourism while the door is not completely shut on the international scene as witnessed in the last six years as Nigeria completely absented itself from international tourism expos and meetings where it had before made huge gains.
NTDC, they said should hold a dialogue with all the states to formulate a business solution to the issue of registration, grading and classification of hotels and other related tourism outfits as this is very crucial to building a virile tourism industry in line with international best practice.
The National Institute of Hospitality and Tourism (NIHOTOUR), is another under – performing parastatal under tourism sector that they want revitalized. ANJET said it should be forward looking and take seriously its human capacity building functions by engaging with the various stakeholders, especially the hospitality industry in order to ensure that the National Occupation Standard (NOS) is effectively implemented.
ANJET also charged the various stakeholders, particularly the members of the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN) and the federation itself, to shake off its lethargy and see tourism as a serious business by going all out to invest in it and engage the government seriously in funding the sector by putting in place the needed infrastructure for their businesses to thrive.
Another area that the body drew attention to is that of aviation, decrying the present status and lack of synergy between it and tourism. Going forward, they call for alignment between the two bodies as it exist in developed climes where both aviation and tourism are seen as sesame twins and not separate bodies.
To this end, they called on the government to give serious attention to the rejuvenated Presidential Council on Tourism (PCT), which since it was brought back is yet to make any impressive impact on the sector.
A deliberate branding and marketing communication mix is advocated for the country if it ever wants it tourism sector to make any impression both on inbound and outbound tourists. They decried the present situation which has turned the present minister to both the spokesperson of the government and the ruling political party at the expense of tourism.
According to the body, this is one reason while culture and tourism should have a separate ministry from the present information and culture ministry so that the information minster should focus on government while the tourism minister becomes the number one brand ambassador of the country by leading the branding and marketing communication effort as well as see that every communication from the government takes into cognisance it implication for the tourism sector.
The group declared its readiness to work with both the government and private sector in any capacity, besides its role of information dissemination and education, which it has performed effectively, in order to achieve the dream of making Nigeria one of the top five destinations in Africa within the shortest possible time.