 Suspected ritual killerds have abducted female National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members posted to Ebonyi State, forcefully removing their panties, other inner wears and clothes before freeing them. The corps members were in Ezillo axis of the Enugu/ Abakaliki highway, Ishielu Local Government Area of the state waiting for vehicle to convey them to Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state when the black SUV stopped in front of them. The driver of the vehicle reportedly charged the corps members N200 each to Ohaukwu but diverted to another route other than the location the corps members were headed and the hoodlums immediately brought out guns and ordered the ladies to pull off their panties and other inner wears. Our correspondent learnt that one of the corps members was on her monthly menstrual period when they were abducted, was in tears as she pleaded to be left alone. The pleas were ignored by the abductors bent on their mission and they did not just seize her own pants but also forcefully took the sanitary pad. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident yesterday, saying: “On February 5, 2019, female corps members reported to Divisional Headquarters in Ohaukwu Local Government Area to report that on their way coming from Ezillo in Ishielu Local Government Area to Abakaliki, a Jeep stopped in front of them and asked them to pay N200 each to be conveyed to Abakaliki. “They entered. On reaching 135 Junction they diverted to another direction and told them that they wanted to pick something from a teacher at St. Michael Secondary School, Ezzamgbo. “When they got to Oshiegbe community, at the boundary area between Ohaukwu and Ezza North Local Government Areas, the driver stopped and came down. He told them that he wanted to ease himself. “He immediately went to the back door, opened the door and pointed a gun at them; ordering them to come down and give them all their clothes including their panties. “One of them shed tears when she remembered that she was in her period. They collected their pants and her sanitary pad and drove off. Before driving off, they collected their phones and smashed them on the spot.”