Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, yesterday presented a total of N1.043 trillion budget appropriation for 2019 to the state House of Assembly. The budget is tagged: “Budget of Quabalistic Densification.” Ayade, who said the 2019 budget estimate was spiritual and deserved fervent prayers for the state to successfully implement it, put the total budget at N1,043,967,000,000.  The governor, however, regretted that the state spends N1.8 billion monthly to service debts, noting that the last year’s budget, which was also tagged: “Kinetic Crystallization,” recorded 74 per cent performance.  Ayade said: “This year’s budget is tagged “Quabalistic Densification,” because it is a magical budget concentrating on all of our ideas and ideals into a cumulative action point that will deliver with escape velocity. The budget seems to address the fundamental thrust of our governance agitation, creating a property direction and pathway.” “This budget is ambitious, but driven by intellectual strength. It N1,043,967,000,000 and of this, 35 per cent will go into infrastructure.” “The only way to change a state is by providing production that matches consumption. We are focusing on the realisation of the core mandate of this government, shifting Cross River State from third world to first world within eight years. And, that can only be achieved by a strategic long-term plan and it is to deal effectively with the issue of the active industrialisation in every local government area seeking and connecting into the superhighway.”  “Quabalistic Densification focuses on the Kinetic Crystallization of what we achieved in 2018. I give you a good example; construction has started in full force on the superhighway, and if you are driving as you are approaching Ikom to the left and to the right, you can see the massive work going on.” The governor did not say how much of the budget was allocated as recurrent expenditure, but only noted that 35 per cent had been allocated to infrastructure.