…warns APC members against violence…appeals to Igbo in Lagos to vote APC   The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and co-chairman of the APC Presidential Campaign Council, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has reaffirmed his support to President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive for security agencies to deal ruthlessly with anyone, who attempts to snatch ballot boxes during the rescheduled Saturday, February 23, presidential and National Assembly elections. Speaking at Lagos APC stakeholders’ meeting, yesterday, Tinubu said the party in the state and South-West is behind Buhari on the warning against box snatching and other electoral violence as it is in the interest of protection of the nation’s democracy from mischievous elements and enemies of democratic principles who were bent on scuttling it. Tinubu assured APC members in the state that the party’s victory at all level is certain, insisting that the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), would be massively defeated in many geo-political zones, especially in North-West, North-East and South-West. Speaking on the postponement of last Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) few hours to the commencement of the poll, Tinubu urged APC members and the electorate not to be deterred by the shift and propaganda from political opponents, but be resolute and come out en masse to vote for Buhari and other APC candidates. He said his party had put the disappointment behind it and is working hard to record victory on Saturday even as he admitted that INEC has the backing of law to reschedule elections if the need arises. His words: “INEC is not our opponent. PDP is our opponent and we are going to beat them silly at the poll. They don’t even have our strength. In the North-West, South-West, Middle Belt, everywhere, so how are they going to win? But, I urge you our dear party members, you need to make the victory a resounding one. You must work hard and mobilise everyone to vote for our candidates,” he said. Tinubu also enjoined Igbo residents in Lagos state to ensure that that they cast their votes for APC candidates in the elections, saying Lagos State has never been discriminated against people from the South-East and others in the delivery of democratic dividends.
He added the APC government has provided the environment for the people of South-East to conduct their businesses and succeed in the state, so the party expects them to support its candidates at the polls for progress.
“We are equally appealing to our Igbo brothers. This is the state you conduct your businesses.”