Ongoing campaign against the Resident Electoral Commissioner, REC, for Akwa Ibom State, Mike Igini, led by the state chapter chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, Ini Okopido has been described as shameful, misleading and unsubstantiated. This was made known by the foremost social orientation and civil liberty group, Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement, AILM, during a media briefing in Uyo, on Monday. The group called on the National Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and the REC, Mr. Mike Igini to ignore the baseless accusations churned out by the APC and focus on delivering credible and violent free elections in the state. According to the leader of the group, Prince Emmanuel Sam, the APC may have started calling for the redeployment of the REC after all measures to compromise him have failed. ” We, in Akwa Ibom Liberation Movement, pass a vote of confidence on the REC, Mr. Mike Igini because going through his records we have seen that this is the best man to ensure a credible election, where every vote will count. He can not be compromised and knows the job. “We believe the so called protest by the APC leadership is merely acting a script written by former state governor, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, who has seen that his presumptions about  influencing voting across the state for APC have failed because the party did not campaign widely but relied on using ‘federal might’ to intimidate voters and force electoral officials to rig election for his party. We therefore advise APC leadership to channel its energies toward rallying members and supporters to vote rather than  engage in propagating frivolous and wild claims. ” Mr. Okopido should desist from leading this sad campaign of calumny against the REC, who merely said he will be an umbiased umpire. He knows the dwindling  chances of his party  in the contest that is why he is agitating for a REC they can influence. Akwa Ibom electorate will decide eventually. If they don’t want Senator Akpabio, Mr. Nsima Ekere and many others because of their previous bad record, do you want INEC to alter that?” AILM wondered why the party that once celebrated the deployment of Igini to the state could suddenly turn around to call for his redeployment. “We are aware that APC is uncomfortable with the uncompromising stance so far displayed by the REC. The state chairman of APC, Ini Okopido, is frustrated that his party will not enjoy undue advantage in the coming elections. “Recall that APC stalwarts have been boasting of using ‘federal might’ through the Police and INEC to subjugate the will of the people in the coming elections. Apparently, the refusal of Igini to play ball may have struck a wrong chord in the party hierarchy, resulting in the agitations for his removal”. The group hinted. Meanwhile, the man in the eye of the storm, Mr. Mike Igini says “the allegation by APC is nonsense. How do I have a meeting with the people I have never met in my life? Where was the meeting held? They should go and organise their affairs. In this election, nobody will write results at home. “I will give all the parties a level playing ground and nobody would truncate the wishes of the people of Akwa Ibom State. Their votes must count.”