Two people were injured yesterday during an attack on the campaign trail of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, in Ilorin, Kwara State. Although details of the incident were sketchy, security sources confirmed the development to have occurred near Isale-Aluko area of the metropolis where Osinbajo had gone on his door-to-door campaign in the state capital. A police source explained that the incident occurred after the VP’s convoy had left the vicinity. Kwara State Police Command confirmed the attack on the campaign trail of Osinbajo. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Ajayi Okasanmi, said the Vice President was not at the scene where the unknown gunmen shot at the mammoth supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who came out to hail the Osinbajo at Isale Aluko area in Ilorin. The Kwara Police spokesman confirmed that two persons sustained gunshot injuries while others who ran for safety suffered various degrees of injuries. He said first information available to him has it that the attack was allegedly carried out by thePeoples Democratic Party (PDP) thugs in the state. Okasanmi said investigations into the matter had begun and promised that the police would unravel and bring those involved to justice. Expectedly, the two major political parties in the state – APC and PDP – blamed each other for the attack, which came barely 24 hours after a clash between the two parties at Ojoku in Oyun Local Government Area. In the Ojoku attack, two people were killed while several others were injured. While the APC claimed the attack on Osinbajo was masterminded by PDP elements, the latter insisted that the attack stemmed from disagreement on how to share money allegedly given to political thugs working for the APC. A statement issued last night by Rafiu Ajakaiye, the media aide to Abdulrazaq Abdulrahaman, the APC governorship candidate in the state, claimed that “the Vice President was at Isale-Aluko suburb of Ilorin on a door-to-door campaign when some daredevil gunmen opened fire at his convoy which included thousands of APC members and supporters.” Ajakaye called for immediate arrest and prosecution of those behind the incident as well as investigations to reveal those who gave the orders for the attack. The media aide said two members of the APC sustained “life-threatening injuries,” while many others got seriously injured while running into safety. He added: “We call for all measures to be taken to ensure safety of lives and properties and sanctity of the ballot box in Kwara and beyond.” But in a statement, the state PDP Publicity Secretary, Tunde Ashaolu, denied involvement of the party in the attack, saying Osinbajo had even visited the Agbajit family home of Senate President Bukola Saraki without any untoward incident. He said: “Osinbajo was in Ilorin for the door-to-door campaign rally of his party, the APC and other activities of the party, when his convoy was attacked. “The incident was an intra-party affair involving members of the APC, arising from the endless crisis confronting the party.” Ashaolu added that crisis broke out when Osinbajo got to Alanamu Ward of Isale-Aluko, which is the base of two former governorship aspirants of the APC, Lukman Mustapha and Moshood Mustapha, who had been engulfed in superiority war. He said: “It was also gathered that the money released to be shared among party supporters triggered the violence. “Once again, we emphasise that the PDP has no hand in the fracas and we reject any attempt by the APC to link our party to the crisis.” Thirteen people, among them two middle-aged women, were arrested at the weekend by the police during a clash between members of Badoo Confraternity and Vigilantes in Ilorin, Kwara State. The police said suspected leader of the group was still at large while those in custody would be charged to court… In "Metro and Crime" At least two people were killed during a violent clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ojoku, Oyun local government area of Kwara state. The police have also confirmed the arrest of six suspects over the incident which occurred on Monday evening… In "News" …PDP, APC trade blames   Hoodlums suspected to be political thugs yesterday descended on Agbaji, the family home of Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, in Ilorin, Kwara State. At the end of the invasion, which lasted several hours, about 15 people were left with various degrees of injury while about… In "Metro and Crime"