It was a night made in hell. While residents thought that they had closed business for the day and made to retire to their homes, disaster struck. Now, the Amawbia Community in Awka, are counting how much was lost to a petrol tanker inferno. OKEY MADUFORO reports  At exactly 7:23pm that fateful Saturday evening, residents of Amawbia Town in Awka South Local Government Area may have run away with the impression that the day’s toil was over.
They were indeed oblivious of the danger that lucked in the dark quarters of the unknown when a 40 feet tanker carrying petroleum products crash landed at the Zik Avenue roundabout at Amawbia, emptying its content. The tanker driver who saw that the tanker head had disengaged from the rest of the body sped off for safety and was stopped by policemen manning a security post of the Anambra police command.  While he was being quizzed by the vigilant security operatives over the incident, the tanker exploded and hell was let loose.  As the petrol flowed uncontrollably, it was followed by fire which razed the security post to the governor’s lodge, part of the Anambra State fire service compound, over 23 shops and a building housing the Hausa settlement in Amawbia. Also touched was a five storey building, which had the first and second floors burnt as well as eight vehicles parked along the road.  A total of five persons, mostly from the Hausa settlement lost their lives while eight persons were injured with one person still missing as at the time of filling this report. Speaking with reporters on Monday, the leader of the Hausa community in Amawbia, whose subjects were badly affected by the fire, Alhaji Mamood Sani, confirmed that five of his subjects died in the fire while one person is missing.
“The incident happened in front of our residence where we do business and most of them sell suya and food items. Some sell other goods. We have been there for decades in Amawbia.
“We were lucky to have evacuated woman and children. So, it only affected our men.  “As I speak to you, five persons have died and one person is missing. Those injured are at Nwarusi private hospital and others are at Amaku General Hospital and Regina Celia Hospital in Awka.”
Sani said that what was lost to the fire incident was about N6 million, including property and goods belonging to the traders.
He appealed to the state government and public spirited individuals to come to their assistance.  There is however no longer room to continue to access or rage over the extent of damage. What society watchers are indeed contending is the safety measures along major towns and streets in Anambra State.
Mr. Ceasar Okoye, a commentator on social issues, told New Telegraph that had it been that Amawbia had good motorable link roads to other nearby towns, the heavy vehicle would not have taken the route of passing through busy and densely populated areas like the Zik Avenue.
“We have a road that links Nise town through Union Secondary School Amawbia and joining the old Onitsha-Awka-Enugu road. This is a project that was abandoned by the previous government of Anambra State.  “We also have a road that linked Bishop Crowder Anglican Seminary, Awka, to Amawbia and also busting out at the Kwata junction, Onitsha-Awka-Enugu express way. Such lonely roads that are less populated can be used to divert heavy duty vehicles.”
Mrs. Nnenna Madubueze, a hotelier in Amawbia, contended that the Zik Avenue, connecting Amawbia-Umuokpu to Awka town is too narrow to be a dual carriage way.  “When that road was to be reconstructed by the former governor, Chris Ngige, it was wide enough and small shops and shanti buildings were removed and this roundabout, where the tanker fell was expanded but after he left office, people returned to the road, crossing the drainage”.
“That is why at every time a vehicle loses control, food vendors and hawkers become accident victims and most of the time, people die.”
The roundabout in question has a petrol station, the Eastern Mass Transit garage, Adam and Eve Transport Company and black market petrol dealers’ stand.
At evenings fruit and food vendors take over half of the road while tricycle operators have made the junction their anchor point.  Most shops along the road and down to Nise-Agulu road are stationed on the fringe of the road and those shops were burnt last Saturday evening. Andrew Udedibia, a transporter, lamented that the Zik Avenue Amawbia has a diversion that starts from the governor’s lodge junction connecting the old District commissioner’s field and joins the dual carriage road at the prison junction, which he said has been a death trap.
“The road is straight but the police blocked the road due to the presence of the State Police Command Headquarters in Amawbia and they will direct motorists to that narrow long cut off road.
“The road block had at several occasions caused accidents, leading to loss of people’s lives. Several trucks had failed break and rammed into the dividers on the road. What appears more worrisome is that Amawbia town that houses the governor’s residence, state police command; state CID, Red Cross, the Department of State security and the ancient market and garage has no hospital.  Against this development, accident victims were taken to private hospitals that have not much treatment to offer or to the Amaku Hospital and most victims die before they gain access to medical attention.
Above all, the public has called for the banning of heavy duty vehicles from passing through Amawbia roads. They have also urged the state government to find alternative link roads to the express way besides the ever busy and narrow Amawbia by pass.
Similarly, the Onitsha – Awka expressway that is currently under reconstruction by the Federal Government need to be jump started before the commencement of the rainy season this year.  It is as a result of the collapsed state of the express way constructed under late President Shehu Shagari’s administration that the tankers and trailers as well as other heavy duty vehicles now pass through the heart of Awka-Amawbia town.