All eyes are on seven sitting state governors who are on the last lap of their second terms as they test their popularities in today’s senatorial elections. WALE ELEGBEDE looks at their chances in the feisty race  Since the return to democracy in 1999, the probable destination of many governors is the Senate soon after they finished their second term. Perhaps, the allure to head to the National Assembly after their constitutionally backed two-terms of four years, could be the craving to remain politically relevant by clinging to power in one way or the other. Presently, there are about 15 senators in the outgoing Eighth Assembly (2015-2019) who are former governors and have served one or two terms in their respective states. But itching to join the fray in Red Chamber if they scale today’s election hurdle are nine governors initially but reduced to seven, namely: Rochas Okorocha (Imo); Ibrahim Geidam (Yobe); Ibrahim Shetima (Borno); Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe); Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun); Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo) and Tanko Al-makura (Nasarawa). For the records, Governor Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara) hope of joining his colleagues in the senate was dashed by the rejection of the state APC list by INEC, just as Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed of Kwara State was replaced in a last minute reshuffle by his party, the PDP. Although they are sitting governors, they had to battle hard to secure their party’s nomination to secure their senatorial ambition, howbeit wresting the tickets from their party men, some of them incumbent senators, who also want to return to the upper legislative chambers of the National Assembly. Interestingly, the stakes are high and the usual roller coaster ride for state chief executives in elections appear missing in today’s election. Across the different senatorial districts the governors are contesting from there are both acceptance and rejection of their ambitions. However, the next few hours will determine whether they will be able to float on the rivers or not. Rochas Okorocha (Imo West APC) The political scenario playing out in Imo State APC ahead of today’s National Assembly election is quite unique. Despite being the only APC state in the South East and most likely stronghold for the ruling party in the region, the party has lost its balance of peace in the past months over ambitions and interests. Regarded as the leader of the party in the state, Governor Okorocha as early 2017, told all that cares to listen that he will be running for the Imo West senatorial seat, which is presently occupied by Senator Hope Uzodinma, who at that time was elected on the platform of PDP. From the day he made the declaration, a lot had happened in the South East state and all sorts of politicking ensued even beyond the scramble for the Imo West ticket. The intra party squabbles arising from the dramatic emergence of Uzodinma as the party’s gubernatorial candidate at the expense of Okorocha’s anointed successor, Uche Nwosu, had polarized the party into two antagonistic camps. Aside from the various contraptions in the Imo APC, Governor Okorocha will today slug it out with Senator Osita Izunaso of the APGA, Jones Onyereri of the PDP and 34 other senatorial candidates in the election. No doubt, Okorocha’s image looms large in the zone based on the achievement of his rescue mission government. Aside this, his foot soldiers are everywhere, drumming support for him and brandishing his achievements. But the crisis rocking the APC, the platform on which he is contesting, while his supporters are rooting for AA and which he allegedly ignited might be a problem to him. The Orlu royal fathers are angry with him for humiliating the then chairman of the state council of traditional rulers, His Royal Highness Eze Dr. Cletus Ilomuanya out of office. Izunaso from Ohakpu in the Oru West council area has the support of many of his constituents, including the disabled who he has helped through his Kpakpando Foundation. It is expected to be tough nut but whoever emerges as the Imo West senator must have gone through fire and return. Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central APC) Governor Ibikunle Amosun certainly wants to rewrite the history of political transition in Ogun State. Apart from relent lessly pursuing his plan to install a successor in 2019, the governor is also interested in breaking the second term senatorial jinx in the state by returning to the Senate after completing his eight-year tenure. The APC in Ogun State have been embroiled in serious crisis because Amosun has not hidden his preference for a member of the House of Representatives, Adekunle Akinlade, as his successor. The lawmaker, who could not pick the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress, defected to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), where he is contesting the seat. The peak of the crisis was last Monday’s pelting of some national leadership of the party with stones, in the presence of President Buhari at the Abeokuta presidential rally. Aside the governorship crisis, the governor’s senatorial ambition has loomed on the political radar and posed a threat to the calculations of others interested in the Ogun Central seat. The Ogun Central zone comprises Abeokuta North, Abeokuta South, Odeda, Obafemi-Owode, Ewekoro and Ifo local government areas. Amosun’s aspiration pitched him against his longstanding associate, Dr. Lanre Tejuoso, who lost his return ticket for another term. If elected today, Amosun would join the league of governors who have found the Senate as a retirement hub. Being one of the governors that are very close to the president, the possibility of clinching the ticket is quite high. In 2003, Amosun contested for Senate on the platform of PDP. He succeeded Femi Okurounmu who occupied the seat on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD). In 2007, Amosun contested the governorship of his state as candidate of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). But he lost to Otunba Gbenga Daniel. During his tenure at the upper chamber of the National Assembly, Amosun served as the Chairman, Senate Committee on Commerce. He also served as member in the Senate Committees on Appropriation, Foreign Affairs, Privatization, as well as Security and Intelligence. Before the crisis that befell the APC, the governor has held tenaciously to the party structure in the state and consolidated his hold power with his loyalists taking various party positions in virtually all of the 236 electoral wards and 20 local government areas. As it is, Governor Amosun is set to battle the ticket with a former Speaker of the Ogun State Assembly, Mrs. Titi Oseni- Gomez and 17 other candidates. In a race that is expected to be dramatic given the diverse nature of the senatorial district and the various interest at play. Ibrahim Geidam (Yobe East APC) Governor Ibrahim Geidam was elected deputy governor of Yobe State on the platform of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) in 2007, but became governor on January 27, 2009 following the death of Governor Mamman Bello Ali. After serving out Ali’s term, Geidam contested and won the 2011 governorship election in the state and was re-elected for a second term in the 2015 elections. This means that he would have spent 10 years in 2019. Unlike some of his colleagues, Geidam was initially more concerned with who succeeds him rather than the Senate. He was quoted on several occasions to having said that he will not hand over the state’s number one office to an absentee politician, though he stressed that he’s not the one to give power, but God. Against this backdrop, he is insisting on a successor, who knows what the masses need and is domiciled in the state so as to continue with the good works and remarkable developmental stride in the state. But after several entreaties from the people of Yobe East senatorial district, where he hails from calling on him to contest for the Senate seat, the governor surrended. After much horse-trading, the incumbent senator and former governor of the state, Alhaji Bukar Abba Ibrahim, conceded the seat to the governor. Ibrahim was governor of Yobe State between 1999 and 2007. He also served as governor of the state from January 1992 to November 1993, during the aborted Third Republic. In 2007, he was elected to the Senate for the Yobe East. He ran for reelection in 2011 and won. He was elected for the third term in 2015. Interestingly, there are only two other candidates in the senatorial race against the governor in Yobe East and this presupposes a victory just waiting in the wings. Tanko Al-Makura (Nassarawa South APC) After overcoming the first battle of securing the APC ticket from the current senator from Nassarawa South, Suleiman Adokwe, the incumbent governor of Nasarawa State, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, is headed for another version of battle that will eventually guarantee his stay in the Red chamber. Some political analysts are watching with keen interest what will be the fate of Senator Adokwe, considering that Al- Makura’s performance as governor in the past seven years has been generally being commended by many both within and outside the state. The governor may find it extremely difficult to convince the Alago people, who are the majority in the three local government Areas of Doma, Obi and Keana and parts of Lafia which constitutes Nasarawa South Senatorial zone to support his ambition, as findings revealed that the Alagos have held several meetings and vowed to stop him from snatching the Nasarawa South Senatorial seat currently being occupied by one of their own (Adokwe) as he unseated their kinsman (late Doma in the 2011 governorship election) despite his endorsement by the Eggon All Progressives Congress (APC) forum in Nasarawa South Senatorial zone. Besides, Al-Makura strain relationship with the organised labour in the state over non-promotion of workers, non-payment of leave allowances and gratuity and percentage payment of salaries of local gov-ernment workers may constitute a clog in the wheel to Governor Al-Makura’s senatorial ambition. Al-Makura’s hope of securing substantial votes from Ciroma Ward considered to be the most populated ward in the state may not help him as votes put together in the three Alago dominated local government areas of Doma, Obi, Keana and part of Lafia surpass that of Ciroma Ward. Worse still, local government workers in the three dominated council area of Doma, Obi and Keana, who are not happy with his administration over percentage salary payment are said to be waiting patiently to vent their anger on the governor by denying him their votes during the election. Also, the inability of Governor Al-makura’s administration to return hundreds of thousands of displaced Tiv people in the three local government areas of Doma, Obi and Keana and parts of Lafia, who were displaced by attacks by suspected herdsmen, may also stand on the way of the governor. Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo South APC) Governor Ajimobi of Oyo State is not new to senate race as he was elected into the Red Chamber in 2003 on the platform of the Alliance for Democracy (AD). However, the tide is different this time around as he has a couple of other heavyweights to contend with for the Oyo South seat. No doubt, the APC is seen to be a step ahead of other parties in the state especially with the seamless rounds of primaries they conducted last year, but the Achilles heels of the party may be in the counter actions of some aggrieved members of the party who have found solace in other parties. Ajimobi’s major rival in today’s election is Senator Adesoji Akanbi who quit the APC for the African Democratic Congress (ADC) when it was obvious that the party would not guarantee his second term ticket. With Oyo South classified as one of the biggest senatorial district, the path to victory for Ajimobi may not be smooth but its somewhat guaranteed ahead of his former ally, Akanbi. As things stand now, Ajimobi is the leader of the APC in Oyo State and he holds the political structure, with the wherewithal to win the senatorial seat in his district. He holds the ace going by his affinity with his people in Ibadan. Kashim Shettima (Borno Central) The declaration of Governor Kashim Shettima for Borno Central changed the complex of politics in Borno State especially for those with ambitions in the senatorial district. With the wide acceptance of his anointed successor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum , the governor is seen as someone whose approach to handling political issues was more from his humane disposition, rather than combativeness. Since the Boko Haram uprising in the state, elections have been peculiar in Borno because of the created Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps, and as such elections are conducted within the camps. The battle for today’s election for the soul of Borno Central at the National Assembly is going be a tussle between Shettima and a former Senator and former aide to late president Umar Musa Yar’adua , Mohammed Abba-Aji. Though, Abba-Aji, was then in 2007 , a member of the then ruling PDP , but defected to the APC where he earlier declared his intention to vye the governoship seat of Borno in the 2019 gubernatorial election, before backing out and defected back to his former party, the PDP and picked the Borno Central senatorial district ticket of the party to battle the incubent governor, Kashim Shettima, who picked APC ticket for the said election. While the incumbent governor is banking on his achievements in office to give him the day, the former aide to late president Yar’adua on National Assembly matters, who was a former senator , has also sold his achievements during his former days to the Borno Central electorates for votes. No doubt, today’s Borno Central is expected to be the second hot battle after the governorship election in the Borno 2019 elections. Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe North PDP) After his failed presidential ticket bid, Dankwambo returned to pick the Gombe North senatorial district from his Commissioner, Usman Ribadu, who won the ticket but said the governor deserved to contest for the Senate because of his achievements in the last seven years as Governor of the State. With his emergence, it appears a swap deal seems to have been reached for Gombe North Senatorial District. The incumbent Senator representing the district, Bayero Nafada is gunning for the governorship of Gombe state while the sitting governor, Ibrahim Dankwabo is eying Bayero’s seat as the Senator representing Gombe North. The duo of Nafada and Dankwambo are flying the flag of the PDP. How the governor will perform in today’s election against 17 other candidates will be a referendum on his seven and a half years reign in Gombe State. Ibrahim Dankwambo was born on the 4th of April, 1962. He graduated from Ahmadu Bello University in 1985 with a degree in Accounting. Dankwambo obtained a Master’s degree in Economics from the University of Lagos in 1992 and later on, a PhD in Accounting from Igbinedion University. He worked with Coopers & Lybrand in 1985 and the Central Bank of Nigeria from 1988 to 1999. He was then appointed Accountant General of Gombe State, a position he held until 2005 when he was appointed Accountant – General of the Federation. Dankwambo held this office until he resigned to contest the governorship election.