The United Nations (UN) Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, Diego Garcia-Sayán, yesterday warned that the independence of the judiciary was under threat in Nigeria with the unilateral suspension and replacement of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen by the executive arm of government acting on an ex-parte order of a tribunal.  Onnoghen was suspended on January 25 and replaced by Justice Tanko Mohammad without recourse to the National Assembly. Sayan described the situation as a violation of the principle of separation of powers and a contravention of international human rights standards on independence of the judiciary.   He said that international human rights standards provide that judges may be dismissed only on serious grounds of misconduct or incompetence. President Muhammadu Buhari said he acted in compliance with an order issued two days earlier by a tribunal established under the Constitution to decide on alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct for Public Officials. However, four separate Nigerian courts, namely the Court of Appeal, the National Industrial Court and the two Federal High Courts, had already ordered a stay of proceedings in the Tribunal.  Moreover, the said order upon which the suspension was based, was issued ex-parte while the motion on notice on the same subject was adjourned the day before by the issuing court. “Any decision to suspend or remove a judge from office should be fair and should be taken by an independent authority such as a judicial council or a court. The dismissal of judges without following procedures laid down by the law and without effective judicial protection being available to contest the dismissal is incompatible with the independence of the judiciary.  “All State institutions must abide by the decisions of national courts and tribunals. In the case of Chief Justice Onnoghen, four national courts hierarchically superior to the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) had already ordered a stay of proceedings, and the Tribunal had, in a previous case, eight months earlier, held that it lacked jurisdiction over cases involving judicial officers, which should be processed by the National Judicial Council,” the UN expert said.  Sayan said that some of the judges handling the case of the Chief Justice and the defence lawyers have been subject to serious threats, pressures and interferences. “I am seriously concerned at such allegations, which may constitute, if proven, grave attacks to the independence of the judiciary and the free exercise of the legal profession,” said the expert. “One of the senior advocates defending the Chief Justice was arrested on Wednesday by security agencies. Lawyers play an essential role in securing access to justice, and should never suffer, or be threatened with prosecution or other sanctions for action taken in accordance with recognized professional duties, standards and ethics,” Sayan said.