At least, 14 persons were feared dead yesterday and several others injured in a stampede while leaving the Adokie Amasiemaka Stadium, Port Harcourt, venue of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) rally, where President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders attended.  The victims, including men and women, were leaving the stadium at the close of the event when the stampede occurred. A survivor of the stampede said that as supporters were coming out of the stadium, the “Pedestrian Gate” was half opened by policemen on duty at that section despite calls that the gate be opened fully. “When we started coming out, there was confusion because the policemen at the gate refused to throw the gate completely open. At that time, people were pushing each other. I managed to escape without being injured,” he said.  Two ambulance vehicles belonging to the University of Port Harcourt Teaching  Hospital (UPTH) made two trips lifting the casualties to the hospital. Several others who sustained various degrees of injuries were attended to by friends and family members. When contacted, the spokesperson of the Rivers State Police Command, Nnamdi Omoni, said that he could not comment on the incident because he had not been briefed on the incident. Earlier, Buhari said that he won’t allow any security agency to intimidate Nigerians during the elections.  The University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital, UPTH, confirmed that 14 persons lost their lives during the stampede. Kem Daniel-Elebiga, UPTH Public Relations Officer, said, “I can confirm 14 persons dead as I speak. Initially, it was six but the figures changed as they brought them and are being examined. There are others under medical attention at the Emergency Unit. So, we can’t force a clear figure beyond what the situation is at the moment”  The President also warned all institutions to allow Nigerians to vote the candidate of their choice across party lines without any form of intimidation, harassment and coercion. Buhari also expressed regret that APC in Rivers State was yet to get the green light to participate in the electoral process, noting that though he was elected into office in 2015, he would no doubt, respect the electoral institution that he inherited. Apparently responding to a call made by the Chairman of Rivers APC, Ojukaye Flag Ammachree, that he intervenes in the crisis rocking the party in Rivers, Buhari appealed to the party’s teeming supporters to remain patient and resolute.  He added that the leadership of the party would ensure that justice was done in the country irrespective of party and ethnic colouration. Buhari assured Nigerians that he would not preside over a government that would abuse the trust of Nigerians. “I will be accountable to you (Nigerians). I ask you to please bear with me that I am going to be steadfast and I am going to do justice to all Nigerians. Nigeria is one and we will remain one.” Buhari assured Nigerians that through the Armed Forces, all Nigerians would be respected and that “they are allowed to vote who they like across (all the political) parties. Please have faith that I am going to be fair to all. I will not allow any institution to intimidate any constituency or anybody.” He said that his government has sustained the fight against corruption, and has been tackling insecurity in the North East and has equally improved food security in the country.  “People of the North East are witnesses to our improvement in the security of this country. The millions of dollars that we used to spend on rice (importation), we now save it for infrastructure. On corruption, we are going to remain consistent and resolute”, Buhari noted. Also speaking, the immediate past Governor of Rivers State, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, threatened to “battle Governor Nyesom Wike to the last” just as he declared that the presidential election on Saturday is for the APC. He regretted that after making Wike his Chief of Staff during his first term in office and a minister in his second term in office, Wike betrayed him. Ameachi said: “Whatever Wike wants on Saturday, we will give him.  Whatever the PDP wants in Rivers, we will give them. Your Excellency, I am not going to Abuja again from here. In 2015, the army attempted to arrest me as a sitting governor. “We will battle him to the last. Today, we will sing like the Igbo sing. (Ameachi then goes on to sing a war song in Igbo dialect).  On Saturday, they should get ready. We are ready for them.” Ameachi added that in 2015: “They used federal and state institutions against us. They killed and maimed our leaders… they used the courts against us.”  Meanwhile a mild drama played out inside the stadium as the supporters of Senator Magnus Abe and those of Architect Tonye Cole engaged in a scuffle that lasted for more than 30 minutes before the rally started. Abe had arrived the venue shortly after the stadium had erupted that the Supreme Court had ruled in the favour of Rivers APC, which turned out to be false. As he entered the VIP section with his supporters and some serving lawmakers in the National Assembly, the supporters of Cole, who were part of the security arrangement at the stadium prevented them from joining Abe, leading to a scuffle that led to pushing and shoving.