About 300 unemployed youths and women in Edo State were recently empowered by the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) under the Federal Government empowerment and job creation initiatives. Speaking at the official flag-off of the programme in Benin- City, Mrs Oluwumi Rosaline, Deputy Director, Vocational Skills Development Programme, who represented the Director General, advised youths and women to take advantage of the programme to better their lives. He added that the NDE was aimed at meeting the legitimate demands of unemployed citizens, especially youths and women for decent jobs opportunities. “I want to thank God for making this gathering possible today, and also extend our thanks to the State governor for the opportunity given to us and also for his supportive role in ensuring that this federal government initiatives see the light of day. “You will all agree with me that employment is a key component of individual and national development, so we must commend the Federal Government for these initiatives. The challenges that unemployment has brought globally is something that the Federal Government is determined to tackle, hence this empowerment programme. “It is very worrisome and has dire consequence of the people. So our youths and women must try as much as possible to key into this programme. “Under the national leadership of the Director – General, Dr. Nasir Mohammed Ladan Argungu, NDE is determined to train 10, 000 women and youths in Edo State. I’m happy to inform you that out of the 70,000 persons we have trained on various skill acquisitions, 300 people will be empowered. “They will go home with N10, 000 each with which to start a small business on what they have learnt from the training. They will also be giving certificate of participation. “This disbursement of interest free loan to our beneficiaries under the NDE Micro- Enterprise Enhancement scheme (MEES) is a drastic step taking by the Federal Government in ensuring the problem of unemployment is reduced in the country. “I urge all the beneficiaries of this laudable programme to exploit this rare opportunity for self –reliance and wealth creation for self. “They should not be afraid to come to our office to enquire of anything, and I also want to use this medium to inform them to key into the Central Bank of Nigeria/NDE collaboration towards accessing the Agri-Business Small Micro- Enterprise Investment Scheme,” she said.