The frightening trend with which public and private universities are being proliferated today in all nooks and crannies of the country calls for urgent caution. Indeed, if not for anything, there is the urgent need to preserve the entire university system from imminent danger.  In fact, the frequency of granting approval for the establishment of universities in the last three decades by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and the National Universities Commission (NUC) is becoming worrisome and laughable, considering the level of rot characterising the existing ones.  Rather than dissipating energy on establishment of more universities at the detriment of existing ones and for the purpose of satisfying political whims and caprices, attention should be concentrated on improving the existing universities through massive facilities provision and academic programmes’ expansion to accommodate and attract more students.  It is pitiable that Nigerian university system is today a laughing stock among its global contemporaries, given the incessant strikes, inadequate funding resulting in dearth of teaching and research facilities, limited admission space and poor research profile. Though, there has been argument by stakeholders concerning the number of universities and other higher institutions of learning in the country, whatever number of existing universities today is not commensurate with the current population of over 180 million people.   Apparently, that argument may appear relevant, if the rising population of a country is to determine the number of universities the country should have, but what is the need for more universities when the existing ones lack relevant facilities and infrastructure to stand them out as truly centre of academic excellence and purveyor of knowledge. With the country’s 169 universities (public and private), the system could hardly absorb 600,000 of the over 1.5 million candidates who sit for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) yearly, based on the universities’ limited carrying capacity, as defined by the NUC, which anchored the benchmark on human and material resources available in the individual institutions.  Still obsessed with the thirst for creating new universities, without being mindful of the standard in the existing ones, FEC recently approved the establishment of four new private universities. Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, while announcing the new universities after the FEC meeting, listed them as Greenfield University, Kaduna; Dominion University, Ibadan, Oyo State; Trinity University, Ogun State and Westland University in Iwo, Osun State. But, with 169 universities (43 federal, 47 state and 79 private) now operating in the country, none ranks among the best 1,000 in the   world, going by the ranking sheet of the Webometric Ranking of World Universities and other international ranking agencies.  It is amusing that apart from NUC’s claim that the existing universities in the country could no longer cope with the large number of yearly applicants, over 200 applications, as at August last year, are pending for processing for new private universities.  Recently, 20 senators, in what has almost become a tradition at the upper chamber of the National Assembly, presented bills seeking the establishment of a tertiary institution in their constituencies. The lawmakers’ argument was that there is no federal university in their constituencies and that the establishment of the institutions will help to boost the economy of their constituencies. In Nigeria today, the unbridled proliferation of universities is, in fact, one of the reasons why the system is not producing functional result that it should.   It is equally worrisome that most of the universities do not even have personnel, especially lecturers, let alone the requisite infrastructure that will enable a well-rounded tertiary education.  Shocked by the way establishment of tertiary institutions has been turned to constituency project, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has challenged government and the National Assembly on the need to promote a culture of strengthening the capacity of existing universities, rather than creating more in the face of dwindling financial resources. Like other stakeholders, we are not against the idea of a high number of private universities, but the establishment of universities, either public or private, should be better regulated to meet the ideals of the 21st Century ivory towers that are not only cosmopolitan in nature, but would also serve as incubator to generate new knowledge and innovation.  We believe more attention should be placed on a new funding regime for the universities, where the welfare of workers and students, provision of adequate facilities and research equipment, as well as enhanced quality tuition would be prioritised. A situation in which some private universities engage in sharp practices of ‘hiring or renting’ lecturers from other institutions for accreditation exercise should be blamed on the proliferation of universities and this has to be discouraged.  The ultimate focus of government should be on upgrading of facilities and infrastructure in the existing universities to meet the current exigencies.  Specifically, it is high time the Federal Government and its approving agencies looked critically inward, particularly with reference to granting operating licences to operators, who only see the establishment of universities as a means to make money at the detriment of providing quality learning. If the drift is not checked, the country may end up sacrificing the university system on the altar of myopic consideration.