The Code of Conduct Tribunal yesterday ordered the Police and Department of State Security to arrest the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. The court also ordered the agencies to bring Onnoghen to the tribunal tomorrow for arraignment in the six count criminal charge bothering on non-assets declaration filed by the Federal Government.  The ruling of the tribunal was sequel to the application filed by the prosecution through its counsel, Aliyu Umar, SAN, who prayed that a bench warrant be issued against the defendant over his absence in the tribunal since the trial started.
The defendant, through his counsel, Adegboyega Awomolo, SAN, had opposed the application, citing about seven reasons why the tribunal should reject the application.  The tribunal chairman, Danladi Umar, in an already prepared ruling, refused the objection of the defendant and consequently granted an order of bench warrant against Onnoghen.  Umar specifically directed the Inspector General of Police and the Director General of the Department of State Service, DSS, to execute the arrest warrant to ensure that Justice Onnoghen was brought before it on the next adjourned date.
At the resumed hearing, Awomolo had informed the tribunal that the business of the day was to hear the various applications pending before the tribunal.
He, however, sought for the direction of the tribunal on how the applications would be heard.  Umar, in response, drew the attention of the tribunal to the absence of the defendant since the trial started.  He consequently relied on Section 6 (1) of the CCT Practice Direction and Section 396 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, ACJA, 2015, to apply for a bench warrant against the defendant.
“May I draw your attention and the honourable members to the fact that the defendant is not in court today.
“I hereby humbly apply for a warrant of arrest against the defendant”, Umar stated.  However, counsel to the embattled CJN, Awomolo, SAN, urged the tribunal to refuse the application and proceed with hearing of Onnoghen’s motion challenging the jurisdiction of the CCT and legal competence of the charge against him.  Awomolo further relied on Sections 35 and 36 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, to argue that the tribunal ought to first determine the issue of its integrity and impartiality, before proceeding with the trial.  Besides, he argued that the presence of the defendant was not mandatory during hearing of an objection to the charge, adding that the tribunal earlier adjourned to hear all the pending applications. “The defendant is entitled to fair trial and fair hearing and the constitution has mandated that he must be afforded every facility to establish his innocence.
“A criminal trial is a serious matter that affects the liberty of a citizen.  “The application that the tribunal should issue a bench warrant is persecution by the prosecution. The tribunal is urged to preserve the defendant’s rights”, Awomolo submitted.  After submissions of parties, the tribunal Chairman immediately brought out an already prepared ruling, which he read.
It was, however, noted that the two other members of the tribunal neither agreed nor disagreed with the said ruling.  “I recall at the last adjournment that the defendant must appear in court today. My memory is intact, but since he has chosen not to be in court, this Tribunal has no option other than to use machinery at its disposal to compel the appearance in court.
“For this reason, bench warrant is hereby issued to the Inspector General of Police or the Director General of the Department of State Services to produce him before this Tribunal on Friday.  “He must be in the dock on Friday unfailingly”, he said.
Shortly after the ruling, the Federal Government’s lawyer drew the attention of the Chairman to the fact that Friday is an eve of the presidential election, but Umar dismissed the information and insisted that Onnoghen must be brought before him on the next adjourned date.
Meanwhile, the National Judicial Council, yesterday, constituted a five-man Committee to investigate petitions written against Onnoghen, GCON and the acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad.  According to the Council, the committee was set up line with Rule 20 (1) of its Regulations.
The Council equally forwarded a new petition written against Muhammad by Action People’s Party (APP) to him for his response with seven working days.  A statement issued by the Council’s spokesperson, Soji Oye, read: “In continuation of its emergency meeting, the National Judicial Council accepted the result of the preliminary assessment of the petitions against Hon. Mr. Justice W. S. N. Onnoghen, GCON and Hon. Mr. Justice I. T. Muhammad, CFR, that the petitions were worthy of further investigation and should not be terminated under Rule 17 of the Judicial Discipline Regulations of the Council.  “Consequently, the council constituted a five-member Investigation Committee pursuant to Rule 20 (1) of the Judicial Discipline Regulations under the Chairmanship of Hon. Mr. Justice S. A. Akintan, CON, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court of Nigeria.
“A new petition against Hon. Mr. Justice I. T. Muhammad, CFR, by the Action People’s Party (APP) was referred to the Hon. Mr. Justice for his comments within an abridged 7-days.  “Council directed the Investigation Committee to work expeditiously, determine all the petitions and responses and report to Council for a final decision.” The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen, yesterday, refused to appear before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja, where he was billed to be arraigned by the Federal Government over alleged non-declaration of his assets. The Federal Government had filed a six-count criminal charge against… In "News" The Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) has issued an arrest warrant against Walter Onnoghen, suspended chief justice of Nigeria. At its resumed trial on Wednesday, the tribunal ordered the nation’s security agencies to arrest Onnoghen after he failed to appear before it. Aliyu Umar, lead prosecution counsel for the federal… In "News" A’Court refuses to halt CJN's trial Federal High Court stops removal   The Court of Appeal, Abuja Division Abuja, yesterday, declined the request by the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, to make an order stopping the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) from proceeding with his trial. This was… In "News"