Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday called on the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, to concede defeat and congratulate the winner of the Saturday poll, President Muhammadu Buhari.
ACF said the call has become pertinent, as it will assist in moving the country forward. The Forum, in a statement issued yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, congratulated Buhari on the victory, and saluted the courage of Atiku for putting up a good fight in the presidential elections. ACF stated: “The forum calls on Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of PDP as a committed democrat, who cherishes peaceful democratic transition, to accept the will of the people, concede defeat and congratulate President Buhari on his well-deserved victory at the just concluded elections. “Atiku should congratulate Buhari, especially as there are credible evidence that the elections have been generally peaceful, free and fair. Such concession on the part of the main challenger would be in the overall interest of Nigeria and place him among global democrats.” ACF charged Nigerians to be positive, “despite some of the ugly incidences witnessed in some parts of country in terms of ballot box snatching, killings, security challenges and other logistics problems.” The forum commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conducting smooth and transparent elections, and refusing “to be intimidated or cajoled by the initial logistic challenges which led to the postponement of the elections by one week and other unfortunate incidences.”
ACF said: “We salute the resilient Nigerians for their personal sacrifices to not only exercise their franchise by voting candidates of their choice, but also to ensure that their votes got counted. “The journey to this point has not been easy to the contestants, the electorate and other stakeholders. However, with perseverance, resilience, determination and hard work by all in the electoral process, Nigeria has come to this successful end. “The 2019 Presidential election is another milestone in the nation’s election history in view of the keen contest between the two major contenders – President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.” “We equally salute other stakeholders, especially the National Peace Committee of General Abdusalami Abubakar, foreign and domestic election observers and many others for their wise counsel and commitment to peaceful election.”