Resident Electoral Commissioner in Imo State, Prof. Francis Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, has said that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was not responsible for the mix-up in the ballot papers meant for Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections. Ezeonu who noted that result sheets for Gombe were found in Imo state while that of Aboh Mbaise LGA of Imo state were found in Gombe, added that in spite of the slight set back, the Commission has almost completed the distribution of materials for the election. Speaking to newsmen in Owerri on Thursday on the commission’s readiness for the election, Ezeonu said that the mix-up was not deliberate as the electoral materials were printed overseas and the mix-up of the materials could have occurred in the course of packaging. Said he: “The mix-up is nothing unusual because the materials for Gombe were also found here. These things have to do with packaging. The materials were printed overseas and sent here. There is the likelihood that the people packaging the materials don’t understand our alphabets or don’t even speak English. They could for instance package the materials for Ngor Okpala with those of Nkwerre. We retrieved one result sheet for Gombe and we got the ones for Aboh Mbaise which were missing, but once we see such mix-ups, we just exchange it because it happened in several other places. These are some of the minor mix-ups we spent time sorting out.” Ezeonu informed newsmen that the commission is deploying  4758 card readers in equal number of voting points, adding that there are provisions for back-up should there be any emergency in any of the voting points. According to him, the vehicles conveying the card readers were being tracked to ensure that they were delivered to designated points. Ezeonu, who pleaded for the understanding and patience of Nigerians, said that the logistics for the 2015 general elections were not the same with that of 2019 as the commission had had to grapple with the rise in the number of political parties participating in the 2019 general election, stressing, “You can see the enormity of the materials involved. In the past, we use Hilux Vans to distribute the materials, now we use trucks to distribute them.” He reiterated the neutrality of the electoral body, stressing that Nigerians should learn to trust the electoral umpire, and advised Imo people to disregard allegations of thump-printing, adding, “I have heard those allegations and I have told those people making the allegations to go and arrest the culprits. I am not looking for any of my materials because my electoral materials are all intact.” The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said it will partner stakeholders, including media, civil society groups and the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) for transparent and credible elections in 2019. The INEC Resident Commissioner (REC) in Imo State, Prof. Francis Ezeonu, made the promise at his maiden meeting with… In "Politics" Resident Electoral Commissioner for Imo state, Professor Francis Chukwuemeka Ezeonu has disclosed that about 650,000 Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) were yet to be collected by their owners less than six weeks to elections. He added that the state had 3,523 polling units; 4,752 voting points and 2,270,216 registered voters. Ezeonu,… In "News" Ahead of the 2019 general election, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has raised the alarm that no fewer than 370,000 Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) are still lying in its offices without being claimed by their owners. This was disclosed at the weekend by the Imo state Resident Electoral Commissioner… In "News"