Ebonyi State since the electioneering period has been relatively peaceful. But the recent killings, maiming and destructions have shattered the peace enjoyed by the residents and put the state as a flashpoint, UCHENNA INYA reports  There was peace and tranquility allover Ebonyi state before and during the campaign periods except destruction of billboards and posters that characterised the periods. But few days to the postponed presidential and National Assembly elections, the state started witnessing all manner of violence ranging from sporadic shootings to killings by suspected political thugs which has caused serious tension in the state. First to be killed was a PDP member in Ugwulangu community, Ohaozara local government area of the state. it was followed by an attack on the Vice Chairman of Ikwo local government area of the state, Mrs.Regina Iteshi who is currently batting for survival at Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki after she was physically assault. She was kidnapped, the thugs reportedly used sharp object into her private part causing her serious injuries. As the state was witnessing that particular violence, most of them were recorded causing the state Governor Dave Umahi to order security agents to rise to the occasion. A day before the postponed elections, the state police command arrested two persons, Nweke Kigsley and Chijioke Uwakwe from Ishielu and Ikwo local government areas of the state for attempting to blow up a bridge in the state. The suspects had planted object suspected to be bomb in Idembia bridge, Ezza south local government area of the state when they were arrested. The bridge is the longest bridge in the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Loveth Odah confirmed the arrest of the two suspects saying that investigation was in top gear to know who sent them. She said anti-bomb squad of the state command has been dispatched to all the nooks and crannies of the state for discovery of more explosives. Governor Umahi who also confirmed the incident and revealed other violence recorded in the state during a press conference in Abakaliki, urged security agencies to go after the perpetrators. Umahi disclosed that two House of Reps candidates in Ezza North local government area of the state and a police orderly attached to one of the candidates have been arrested. He also revealed that another House of Reps candidate was arrested by Army on the road with a pistol while a politician in Ikwo, Ikwo local government area of the state was also arrested with guns with which he was using to terrorise the people. Umahi said “report came to me as Chief Security officer of this state that a House of Assembly candidate went to quarry site to buy explosives and the people came and reported to us, they refused to sell to him. We had to immediately report to the security agencies and they have the name of the person. They moved into action to arrest the person and I have said they should declare him wanted. “Subsequently, four hours later, we got information that a meeting was held and it was agreed to plant explosives in hotels, in flyovers and bridges including bridges built by past administration in the state. While we were still examining the authenticity of the information, Commissioner for Internal security called to say that the community and Neighbourhood Security Watch apprehended two people that have succeeded in planting explosives at Idembia bridge and they have not detonated it. They were still planting it, they go to the expansion of the bridge the weakest link to plant it. They have been apprehended and sent to the Army and the Army has sent them to the police. So, they are being investigated. “Two House of Reps candidates in Ezza North LGA were shooting guns. Incidentally, a police orderly was attached to one of them who participated in the shooting of gun. The matter has been reported to the police to fish out the police orderly and he must be arrested. Army arrested one of the candidates of a political party along the road with a short gun. Then in Ikwo, somebody was arrested with gun for terrorizing his community. “I appeal again that we should be law abiding, if you will win, God knows, if you will lose, God knows. So, let’s be law abiding. This election will come and go and Ebonyi still remain but destroying vehicles, destroying people’s properties, inflicting machete cuts on people is not acceptable at all.
“Only few days back, a sitting Vice Chairman of Ikwo local government, a female person was kidnapped alongside with five other people. They used sharp object into her private part, cut the tendon of the rest of the people, inflicted severe injuries on human beings. No office worth the blood of anyone.” In Ishielu and Izzi local government areas of the state, one person was killed and nine persons shot during a shoot-out by politicians and their supporters on the eve of the postponed elections. The incidents occurred at Ntezi and Nwofe communities in the local government areas. In the Ntezi incident, a man Onyebuchi Awoke and nine year old boy was shot and are receiving treatment at federal teaching hospital Abakaliki. In Nwofe, seven members of the community vigilante were attacked with gun and one died in the incident. Awoke said “I came back home from Onitsha in the evening. So I went to the residence of our relation, Dr Oke. When I got the gate, I was trying to pay the commercial motorcycle operator who conveyed me when some boys on two motorcycles stormed the area and started shooting sporadically in the air. “I made to run and they shot at me. I fell down and they shot at me again making it two bullets. They were about six boys. This happened around 8pm Friday night. “I think that shooting was politically motivated because that our relation is contesting for something under the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and he is popular in that area. I suspect that it was the plot of the other party to scare away his supporters so that they won’t come out to vote for him.
On her part, Mrs. Oby Aja, a mother of Chibuike who was shot said they were on their way home when some persons on motorcycles passed them and opened fire on them.“We were on our way home from our shop yesterday around 7pm. Suddenly, we came across some boys with machines along the road. Before we knew what was happening, they started shooting sporadically in the air. They shot my little boy, Chibuike Aja. He is 9 years. A member of Obegu Mkpuma-Akpatakpa vigilante, Emmanuel Nwokporo told our correspondent that they were on duty in the Nwofe incident when they were attacked. “We were on duty when our kinsman came around on high speed. So, we flagged him down and queried why he was riding recklessly. He started abusing us and accused us of flashing torchlight to his face. “He said that he was going to deal with us. He left. Shortly, he returned with some of his gang members who came with vehicle. Before we knew what was happening, there were gunshots everywhere. Seven of us were shot but one person died.”
In Ngbo Agbaja Ward, Izzi local government area of the state, two PDP members were killed while seven others members who sustained serious gunshot injuries are currently receiving treatment at FETHA 1 and FETHA 2. They were attacked on the early hours of the day the presidential and National Assembly elections that was postponed. Since the attacks commenced, both the PDP and APC in the state have been trading accusations.