 Over the years, sports have suffered the problem of transition in Nigeria. Athletes are not groomed properly from one age grade to another in their respective sport disciplines so that they could be useful to the country in future. We are aware this is a big problem across all the states as there are no plans for young athletes to replace ageing ones across the states. At national level, the problem is the same as the National Sports Festival (NSF) was in limbo for six years until last year December that the ministry of sports staged the event in Abuja. The NSF was won by Delta State in grand style with no other state coming close to the medals tally the state amassed at the competition. Even though some top professionals who are elite national athletes took part in the competition, it was an event that generally served its purpose. Some youthful athletes were discovered just as the competition staged a return to the delight of many sports lovers who were worried about the wasted generation of athletes who were unable to showcase their talents for six years. Interestingly, we realised that Delta State is not relenting as number one sports state in the country. There are so many activities lined out to boost the pedigree of the state in sports especially at developmental stage. For example, between February 5 and 7, the school sports festival will take place at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba. We learnt the competition started at local government level with all the primary and secondary schools involved. Sports like athletics, basketball, handball, volleyball, badminton, tennis, table tennis, chess and scrabble will be competed for by young athletes in primary and secondary schools in the state. This event is being organized by the Ministry of Basic and Secondary School Education. The commissioner in charge, Chiedu Ebie, said that the programme was in line with the state government’s drive to remain the best sporting state in the country. “We are deliberately preparing our young athletes to be the best in their respective disciplines in the country. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa is committed to grassroots sports development and that is why our school sports athletes are busy all through the year. “Apart from the school sports festival, we have many other events coming up to boost the readiness of our athletes for various national programmes. That is the way to go,” Ebie explained. We realized that there is another event tagged Youth Sports Festival for a specific age grade coming up soon in Delta. There is Headmasters’ Cup football tournament coming up between March and April in which the winner represents the state in a national meet. The Principals’ Cup competition sponsored by Zenith Bank started last year and will end on March 15. A former Commissioner for Sports in Delta State, Chief Solomon Ogba, said other states should emulate Delta to help sports development in the country. “Sport is a tradition in Delta State and it will always be good for many others to imbibe that culture to at least keep youths off the streets and create a better future for sports in Nigeria. The template for youth development has been there and we expect it to get better in the years to come,” Ogba said. At the 2018 National Sports Festival, Delta finished with 163 gold, 88 silver and 101 bronze to place overall first while Rivers came second with 69 gold, 58 silver and 67 bronze medals and Edo State was third with 47 gold, 41 silver and 53 bronze. The difference between Delta and other states is too much. We are aware that the state also has over 15 stadia scattered all over and most of them are busy and well maintained. It is important for other states to follow the grassroots style of Delta in grooming athletes for the future. The consistency of the state in sports is not a fluke, but a deliberate policy to help the youth attain stardom in their respective disciplines. The ministry of sports and the government at the centre cannot do everything for all the states. It is time for states to take the initiative by developing sports from schools, local government and zonal levels. It is not good to wait for a national competition before bringing primary and secondary school students together to compete in sports. It is always better to plan well for the future. We commend the government of Delta State for setting the pace in sports in Nigeria and we make bold to say the country’s sports will generally be better if few of the states can follow the example of Delta. The country is blessed with abundant talents in various sports disciplines but there are no enough competitions to identify and nurture them to stadium We also advise that the states should look for sponsors to boost some of their sporting activities for the youth while the ministry of sports should also create an enabling environment for the states to flourish in sports.