Indications emerged over the weekend that reprieve may come the way of 141 policemen, who were dismissed from the force and on account of desertion after they learnt that they would be deployed to participate in the fight against Boko Haram in the North East. Sunday Telegraph gathered the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu is set to review the matter. The 141 officers of the rank-and-file were accused of committing mutiny and desertion, prompting the immediate past IGP, Ibrahim Idris to order their dismissal with immediate effect. Also, a directive went out for several police units where the dismissed officers were attached to immediately retrieve all equipment in their possession and remove them from payrolls, according to a December 26, 2018 signal. Sources within the police confided in the weekly that Idris, ordered their dismissal immediately the report got to him. “Immediately he got the report, he minuted on it and said dismiss them,” a source who did not want his name in print said. “Administratively that is wrong, not just that, from the point of view of law, that is wrong. You must give people fair hearing. In the private sector, they give you query, ask you to respond before they now set up a committee to look into the issue.”  Asked to explain the procedure in such matter in the force, another source who spoke with one of our correspondents explained: “In the Police, what they were supposed to do is default them try them in the orderly room, ask them to defend themselves, explain themselves and then return a verdict guilty or not guilty. Depending on their involvement, you can either dismiss them, you reduce their rank or reprimand them, you fine them. But none of these were done.” Also, the weekly leant no orderly room trial was carried out, as there is no report to confirm that.  “This why the IGP wants to review the whole matter,” the source said. When contacted, Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, would neither confirmed nor denied the story. In a telephone interview, he said that Mohammed is new on the job, so also himself. “IG just came on board. He needs time to look at everything in order to know what to do.  “Even for someone like me, I do not have a brief on this. Like every other Nigerian, I read about it on the pages of newspaper. Give me some time in order to let me ask my boss and other heads of department, to know exactly what the situation is,” he pleaded. In a related development, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), as well as the National Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), have their operatives fighting in the ongoing counter-insurgency and counterterrorism operations in the North East. The war against Boko Haram is being coordinated under the platform of Operation Lafiya Dole.  The Public Relations Officer of NIS, Mr. Sunday James, a Deputy Comptroller of Immigration (DCI), while confirming the involvement of the Service’s officials said, apart from being part of the Joint Task Force, they are also part of the support team of Operation Lafiya Dole. James disclosed that in the course of deployment, the Comptroller General of Immigration (CGI), Mr. Muhammad Babandede, had ensured adherence to the policy of rotation. He added that the service just sent a fresh team in December, 2018, after demobilising the last set. “It is not that they will be drafted; our officers are already there.  We’ve been part of the JTF (Joint Task Force) a long time ago. “And then, the Operation Lafiya Dole, they (Immigration officials) are part of the support team. We have them; they just left in December. “The other set came back (we demobilised them), and then a new set went back in December,” James said. On its part, the NSCDC also disclosed its involvement in the war to Sunday Telegraph. Asked to confirm plan to deploy officers of the corps in the frontline, the Corps spokesman, DCC Emmanuel Okeh, said: “They are there, and not that they want to join”