At least, 16 people yesterday sustained serious injuries when the convoy of the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, allegedly collided with a passenger bus.
The incident occurred at military cantonment axis of the Abakaliki-Afikpo highway. The bus was carrying passengers from Abakaliki to Uburu in Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State while the minister’s convoy was heading to Abakaliki, the state capital. The minister, it was learnt, did not sustain any injury but all the occupants of the bus sustained serious injuries and were currently receiving treatment at the Accident and Emergency Unit of the Federal Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki 2 (FETHA 2). Most of the victims were being treated beside the accident and emergency building as the ward was filled to its capacity when our correspondent visited. Two of the victims broke their legs while others sustained serious head and leg injuries. They were wearing bandages when our correspondent visited. One of them, Lawrence Okoro, who sustained eye and head injuries, alleged that the minister’s convoy left its lane to their own lane, leading to a head-on-collision.
He noted that though no one died in the incident, all the occupants of the bus sustained serious injuries with some in critical condition. A worker in the hospital, who did want his name in print, said “there is no death recorded in the accident but many people sustained various injuries. We have advised those with minor injuries to go because there is no space in the unit. “We heard that the accident was caused by the Minister of Science and Technology’s convoy. He has left the hospital because he was also affected. They said he was unconscious by the time they rushed everybody here but we thanked God because he walked with his legs to his car and left the hospital. I don’t know where they kept the driver because the driver is equally affected.
“The driver of the bus is still receiving treatment inside the Accident and Emergency Unit. He is the right person to speak on what actually happened.”