Member Representing Barkin Ladi/ Riyom Federal Constituency in the House of Reps and Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP for Plateau North Senatorial Seat in the forth coming general elections, Barr. Istifanus Gyang says his passion to aspire to the highest law making body in the country derives from the security challenges that are peculiar to his constituency and the country at large. Hon. Gyang disclosed on Tuesday when he featured at a Media forum of Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union Of Journalists, NUJ Plateau state said his agenda if elected as Senator will be to provide a platform for sustained dialogue, reconciliation and forgiveness for his Constituency. “My agenda as a parliamentarian is to focus on giving the constituency a VOICE in the affairs of Nigeria and in particular, insist that governments at all levels must leave up to their primary constitutional responsibility of safeguarding the safety of lives and property of citizens in Plateau North in particular and the nation at large in line with Section 4(2), CFRN 1999(as amended). ” This will address the security challenges that have affected Plateau North for over two decades so as to engender lasting peace” According to the Lawmaker, if elected as a Senator, he will build and transform Plateau North from an axis of negativity, prejudice, hostility, mutual suspicion and hate into one of peace and harmonious coexistence where citizenship and customary rights are respected and social justice domesticated. “The priority to peace and peace building in my legislative agenda shall be two fold. First is providing a platform for sustained dialogue, reconciliation and forgiveness and the second shall address and confront threats to peace. “In the process I shall insist and voice out to the Federal and State governments to adopt and Implement the following: -Equity, fairness and justice as the pillars upon which peace is built. He added that as enshrined in  the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in Section 14(2) which provides that the security and well being of the people shall be the primary responsibility of government, engendering peace requires that all threats to the peace have to be addressed. He expressed worries that Plateau North has suffered setbacks in recent past and have bled for long. ‘We carry wounds in our hearts. We are hurting and desperately need healing. “I shall pursue a legislative agenda that shall advocate for the provision of a platform that Will enable our communities affected by prolonged hostility and amnesty to RESTITUTE and genuinely say SORRY to Victims of their atrocities”. Speaking on the demographic and ethnic diversity and plurallty of Plateau North Senatorial District comprising of Barkin Ladi, Bassa, Jos East, Jos North, Jos South and Riyom Local Government Areas, the Lawmaker acknowledge that he is much aware that if not properly and effectively managed, can be a source of misunderstanding, mistrust, suspicion, tention and strife. “I am further aware that events of the past hyped on sentiment, prejuduce inherited cleavages and negativity all of which turned us against one another leading to open conflict and devastanng consequences’. Hon. Gyang who is contesting to with blessing of Senator Jonah Jang to succeed him in the red chamber said humanitarian intervention and empowering internally displaced persons with means of livelihood and habitat to hasten the healing and reintegration process shall be a focal issue of his legislative attention and action.