…seeks support for Abiodun, Ogun APC  The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday warned Nigerians against allowing the opposition to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in the country to take over power. Osinbajo said the opposition elements were only reeling out fake electoral promises but would plunder the nation’s economy again if elected at the polls. He spoke at the palace of Olota of Ota, Oba Adeyemi Obalanlege, in continuation of the Buhari/Osinbajo presidential campaign tour in Ado-Odo/Ota and Ifo local government areas in Ogun State. The VP was accompanied by the APC governorship candidate in Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun; his running mate, Mrs Noimot Salako- Oyedele; Special Adviser on Political Affairs to the President, Senator Babafemi Ojudu; Senator Gbolahan Dada, Senator Akin Odunsi, Hon. Jimoh Ojugbele, Hon. Kayode Oladele, Chief Tolu Odebiyi and Chief Bode Mustapha, among others. In his remarks, Osinbajo also promised that the APC administration, if reelected, would address the infrastructural deficit in the entire Aworiland. He decried the low level of development in the area despite being the industrial hub of the country. According to him, Abiodun will do the needful in the state if elected while other responsibilities beyond the reach of the state government would be channelled through him as vice president. He said if the Ogun State governorship candidate, Abiodun, is voted into office, he will be able to do the needful, while other responsibilities beyond the reach of the state government, the gover-nor can quickly put a call through to him as Vice President to intervene. Osinbajo said, “It is not that we don’t have budgetary allocations for all projects, but the problem we have is corruption. “If you look at our budgets in the last 10 years, the government had made provisions for them. For instance, Lagos-Ibadan road and Lagos-Kano railway projects were awarded 10 years ago and yet, nothing was done. The contractors that handled them collected money and did nothing. “So, let us cast our votes for Buhari for reelection. Even the enemies of President Muhammadu Buhari know that he is not corrupt. “So, don’t elect thieves to come and plunder the economy of the country again, because their electoral promises are lies and all they intend to do again is to come back and ruin the economy.” The VP asked people of the area to cast their votes for APC in the general elections, saying the party would address the numerous challenges confronting them. His words: “You are all progressives and this trait ought to reflect in you. When I was Lagos State Attorney- General and Commissioner for Justice, all your problems became clear to me and which do not supposed to be. “We are promising you that we would look into all these problems when we have Dapo Abiodun, the Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, elected in the forthcoming March 2 election, and the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari/Prof Yemi Osinbajo on February 16.” In his own remarks, the APC gubernatorial candidate promised to live up to expectations if elected at the polls.