The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to pull out of the peace accord signed by political parties and their candidates, blaming it on some actions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its leaders, which the opposition considered inimical to the peaceful conduct of the election. The party also called on the international community to immediately impose a travelling ban on Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai and members of his family for his alleged inciting comment about the general elections.  This, PDP stated, was an inflammatory remark capable of threatening the peaceful conduct of the elections. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, at a press conference yesterday, stated that any situation that seeks to allow the APC to abuse the tenets of the accord would force the PDP to review its signatory to the peace process.  He drew the attention of the Abudulsalami Abubakar- led National Peace Committee to provocative shut down of all the stadia in Kano State by the state  governor, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, in order to frustrate the PDP presidential campaign rallies in the state. He stated that unless the National Peace Committee intervenes and prevail on the ruling party to retrace its step, PDP might have no option left than to allow its members to defend their votes with whatever that is available to them.  The PDP said: “After due consideration of comments, threats and incendiary actions by the APC and the Buhari Presidency, which are directly inimical to a peaceful, free and fair election, the PDP is left with no option than to consider a review of its signatory in the national peace accord, if no action is immediately taken to curb this trend.  “Very importantly, the PDP calls on the National Peace Committee to note the infractions by the APC and its leaders to the peace accord, including the provocative shut down of all the stadia in Kano State by the state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, in order to frustrate the PDP Presidential campaign rallies in the state. “We, therefore, call on the NPC to immediately summon el-Rufai on his inflammatory remarks against peaceful election in our country.  “The PDP hold that any situation that seeks to allow the APC to abuse the tenets of the accord will definitely force our party to review our signatory to the peace process. In that regard, we might have no option left than to allow our members to defend their votes with whatever that is available to them.  “This country belongs to all of us and no individual or group, no matter how highly placed, can subjugate other citizens or seek to appropriate any sort of absolutism to themselves.”  On the provocative statement by el-Rufai, the PDP said: “Nigerians are still in a shock over comments by the   Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, who declared on a national television that members of the global democratic institutions that are working for a peaceful election in Nigeria will return to their countries in body bags. What a threat? “We call on the international community to immediately impose a travel ban on el-Rufai for this inciting comment against peaceful elections in our country.” El-Rufai had featured on NTA’s Tuesday Live programme anchored by Cyril Stober wherein he stated that Nigeria would not bow to foreign powers on the forthcoming elections.  “Those that are calling for anyone to come and intervene in Nigeria, we are waiting for the person that would come and intervene; they would go back in body bags,” el-Rufai said.  Also, Ologbondiyan also said the party rejects the deployment of Kayode Egbetokun, former Chief Security Officer to APC leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as Kwara State Commissioner of Police. According to him, the deployment was “in line with plans by the Buhari presidency and the APC to effect a mass deployment of top security officers, particularly the police, to intimidate, harass and manhandle Nigerians that will not support the selfsuccession bid of President Muhammadu Buhari as well as aiding APC thugs to snatch ballot boxes and orchestrate violence in the elections.” He recalled that Egbetokun was posted to Lagos State by former Inspector- General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, but was stopped by the acting IGP Mohammed Adamu, and wondered why he was being redeployed to Kwara State this time.  “It is necessary to state that the PDP is a party of peace and we are committed to the peace accord. However, the deployment of Kayode Egbetokun as Kwara CP directly negates the principle of the Peace Accord and can only hurt the fragile peace that currently exists in Kwara State. “We wish to remind the acting Inspector General, Mohammed Adamu that his acceptability among Nigerians across party line was based on the pedigree, which was presented to Nigerians before his appointment.  “These pedigree and exposure place on his shoulders, the responsibility to be just, firm, equitable and professional in the discharge of his duties. “We, therefore, urge him not to allow his reputation to be mired in controversial political activities,” Ologbondiyan warned. Former Vice President and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, yesterday signed the Peace Accord in respect of the 2019 general elections. The two personalities were absent on Tuesday at… In "News" Former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was conspicuously absent yesterday at the signing of a national peace accord by various political parties in Abuja. Presidential candidates of 76 political parties signed the accord. The Peace Accord is an undertaking by all… In "News" A solemn, and crucial element of the preparations for the 2019 general election, was consummated in Abuja on Tuesday, December 11, when most of the 73 candidates vying to be president signed a "Peace Accord" to be of "goodwill and good behaviour" in the period of the election, beginning on… In "Editorial"