 Former Flying Eagles coach, John Obuh, has urged the coach of the current U-20 team, Paul Aigbogun, and the team to write their names in gold by winning the ongoing U-20 Africa Cup of Nations in Niger. Speaking with New Telegraph on the telephone, Obuh said the team was unlucky not to have defeated South Africa in their last game but should be able to get the needed result against Niger in their final game of the group stage. “One thing about this African championship is that you make sure you get victory in all your games so that you don’t find yourself in a situation whereby you will start to use calculator,” Obuh said. “I watched their game against South Africa, they were just unlucky not to have converted several chances created. They had the opportunity to have won the game, but not clinical in front of goal. “I am sure that Aigbogun, who is a seasoned coach, would have worked on the team before the final game so that they can convert all their chances against Niger.
“It is no longer going to be the same scenario like it was in the past against Niger; it’s important we get a win in the game to bring confidence into the team.” Speaking further, the former U-17 coach said the Flying Eagles should not put themselves under unnecessary pressure because they are playing against home team, Obuh said a good side could win on any ground.
He added that his team lost the final of the U-17 World Cup hosted by Nigeria in 2009 to Switzerland.
Obuh said: “I wouldn’t want to look at it that because we are playing against the host country, we are already under pressure. I was in charge of a team that lost to Switzerland in the final of the U-17 World Cup in 2009, we should stop having that orientation that home teams always have an edge over their opponents.”
“This is a continental championship and we have to approach it that way. We should be able to plan and execute our strategies well and should not be scared of playing against the home team.
“Also this is an opportunity for the coach and the players to write their names in the history book as one of the team that have been able to win the championships for the country.”