As tempers rise ahead of the rescheduled elections which commence on Saturday, February 23, it has become more imperative and urgent for our security agencies to rise to perform their constitutional duties more professionally and with greater efficiency to protect the nation’s democracy.  The fact that their services are of great necessity before, during and after the elections in the quintessential protection and delivery of sensitive security materials which are critical to the success of the elections places huge responsibilities on their shoulders.  Interestingly, before the botched polls last weekend, most of the agencies, the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy, the Department of State Services (DSS), the Nigeria Police Force and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) have been deplored into the 12,558 constituencies designated by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the polls.  In line with this, scores of officers and men of the Nigerian Air Force were heavily involved in airlifting and delivery of sensitive election materials and personnel into various parts of the country before the postponement of the polls early Saturday morning and more would be required in the next few weeks. Giving the violent nature of the 2018 primaries and the rancour and killings which signposted the 2014 primaries and 2015 elections where no fewer than 70 were killed in pre-election and post-election violence, it has become very imperative for the security agencies to up the ante in the protection of lives and property.  Sadly, two persons, the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Ohimini Local Government Area of Benue State, Mr. Boniface Okloho and a Special Assistant to Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Youth Development, Mr. Lawrence Akpomiemie, were shot dead by yet-to-be-identified hoodlums over the weekend.  It also came as a rude shock that several INEC’s sensitive materials, including 4,695 card readers, Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs), ballot boxes and other materials were destroyed in separate fire incidents in Plateau, Anambra and Abia states before the botched elections. More laughable was the report that the election materials went up in flames in the Qua’an Pan Local Government office of the Commission in Plateau State due to a misconduct of a drunken security guard.  The fact that items like 5,987 uncollected PVCs, 380 Voting Cubicles, 755 ballot boxes, 14 generators, election forms and official stamps were incinerated during the incident calls for professionalism on the parts of the security agencies. Already, the credibility of the election is at stake as the last-minute postponement has cast a pall on its fairness, hence it is not unexpected that some self-seeking, self-serving political party leaders in their desperation to acquire and or retain powers would ensure that security agencies are complicit and compromised to pander ito their interests.  Hence the need for vigilance and patriotism on the part of the security agencies, and to shun all acts of inducements for pecuniary and sundry purposes in the general interests of the nation, especially since their own future and that of their children cannot be extricated from the consequences of a flawed election.  It is of great importance that the Federal Government and INEC have made solid arrangement for the welfare of security agencies during these elections, by setting aside the sums of N53.2 billion and N6 billion respectively for their allowances and feeding during the elections. That is more than sufficient for their needs, hence an insulation against inducements.  Beyond merely warning the electorate and miscreants not to test the wit and might of the police, the Nigeria Police must also match its words with action, by their heavy but pacific presence at the polling stations to forestall all forms of criminality and enforcement of the provisions of the Electoral Act.  Similarly, the recent revelation about massive importation of arms and ammunition by politicians for the purpose of the elections, coupled with some observable criminal activities call for extra vigilance on the part of the security agencies, and should have a bearing on the deployment of security operatives.  Party thugs, especially in the flashpoint states like Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Lagos, Kwara, Kano, Kaduna and Benue states should come under security watch before and after the elections because of their propensity for violence in order to prepare the grounds for cancellation of the polls at such polling unit(s).  While we abhor electoral violence in all ramifications as well as ballot box stuffing and snatching, we make bold to condemn the recent statement by President Muhammadu Buhari that thugs who snatch boxes or disturb the voting system, do it at the expense of their own lives. Coming from the Commander-in-Chief, such statement is incendiary and can indirectly incite the security agencies and operatives to take laws into their hands and shoot anyone on the basis of mere suspicion without sufficient corroborating evidence.  Our legal system frowns at extra-judicial killings but grants the power of arrest of erring individuals, professional investigation and diligent prosecution before courts of competent jurisdiction.  Anything to the contrary is an invitation to anarchy as no election is worth the blood of any Nigerian. Successive election should represent an improvement over the previous one for credibility and sustainability and not retrogression.