Although there are different views held by different persons on its use, the condom has been part of the society in the quest for safer sex. Recently, a Non Governmental Organisation took to the streets of Calabar to drum home the need for people to engage in safer sex. The message was received with mixed feelings as CLEMENT JAMES reports from Calabar   Condom is a contraceptive device made out of thin rubber and latex sheath. There is the male as well as the female condoms but the most popular is the male condom. According to Wikipedia, “the oldest condoms ever excavated were found in a cesspit located in the grounds of Dudley Castle and were made from animal membrane. Condoms dated back to as early as 1642.” It is difficult to know when condom use began in Nigeria, but the country was stampeded into looking for solution when in 1986, it was reported at an international conference that Nigeria had recorded the first HIV/AIDS phenomenon. No doubt, before the introduction of condom into the Nigerian market, there were various methods of contraceptives, mostly for women. It was actually meant for family planning and the Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN) became the major advocate, while family planning units were created in virtually every major hospital and clinic across the country. Before the coming of HIV/ AIDS, Nigerians, especially the male folk, were familiar with sexually transmitted diseases like Chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, Hepatitis B, etc. At that time, as it continues today, traditional medicine practitioners, popularly known as “herbalists,” enjoyed the patronage of male victims, while existing antibiotics were used by medical experts as therapy to remedy the situation. Clearly, before the advent of HIV/AIDS in Nigeria, condom was either non-existent or little known. However, the importation of HIV/AIDS into the country brought various Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) who also came with a variety of remedial options, including but not limited to condom. Unfortunately, not long after the contraceptive device was brought into national consciousness, than religious organizations kicked against it, claiming it was a way of encouraging promiscuity. The debate, which dragged so long while HIV/AIDS ravaged the country, continued until the early 2000, when reason tended to prevail. But NGOs, especially those that have been advocating for condom use, continue to make their case known to the world, even with religion countering it from the background. So, depending on whose voice sounds loudest in the individual’s ears and depending also on the disposition of the individual at a given time, the use of condom continued to remain debatable. While those advocating for the use of condom claim that condom guarantees about 97 per cent protection from sexually transmitted diseases and prevents unwanted pregnancy, as well as allow for birth control, those against it disagree, saying it encourages waywardness. Other reasons often given include not having “full experience” of sex act, discomfort, allergies (as most condoms are made of latex and there are people who are allergic to it), and cost implication, and that it could easily break, among other reasons. It was for these reasons that a non-governmental Organization, AIDS Healthcare Foundation Nigeria (AHF), recently distributed more than 600,000 free condoms to residents of Calabar, the Cross River State capital to celebrate Condom Day 2019, with the theme “Safer is Fun.” Country Programme Director of AHF, Dr. Echey Ijezie, who led health workers on a march through major streets in Calabar said: “We are creating awareness for condom use because condom is still the cheapest and the safest method of preventing HIV, sexually transmitted infections and unwanted pregnancies.” He added: “We are distributing 600,000 condoms during this period across the five states of our operation in Cross River, Anambra, Benue, Kogi, Nassarawa and FCT Abuja. These condoms are for free and we want persons to use them to protect themselves and stay healthy. That is why we are marking International Condom Day. The day is usually marked every 13th of February but because of activities taking place around that time, we had to mark it today. “There is a wide range of activities AHF is involved in, including entrepreneurship training, community mobilization, support services for HIV testing and treatment. The essence of what we are doing is for safety and not promotion of promiscuity. People are sexually active. You can’t run away from that fact. We want them to ensure that they practice safe sex.” Ijezie said AHF which, according to him, has been in existence in Nigeria since 2011 and operates in five states and the Federal Capital Territory, is in 43 countries across the world and 13 of the countries are in Africa. “We are at the forefront of promoting abstinence and we also preach against discrimination and stigmatization,” he said. Perhaps, to make it sensational, the organizers introduced a football match where “Condom” and “Skin” clubs played. Of course, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Inyang Asibong, who has been a major advocate of condom use, was on hand, not only to “kick off” the match, but also to lend support to the activities of AHF. In a way, the organizers, having understood that youths are mostly vulnerable and so should be the target of campaign, used football, seen as a rallying point for young people, to attract them. The goals did not matter, even though “Condom” won “Skin,” the message was so transmitted in a way that forced both men and women to rush for condom. Interestingly, the walk began at the Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital through the popular Watt market and terminated at the College of Health Technology along Mary Slessor road. For those who are familiar with the city of Calabar, the organizers scored a major point by earmarking that route for the condom campaign. It was an enchanting sight to see young men line the route, with some following the convoy just to get condom. Whether this scramble for condom translates to up scaling the use of the contraceptive is a different thing altogether, but the rush for the product shows that the indifference that greeted it years ago was giving way. Apart from the crowd that lined up the route, those waiting at the venue, College of Health Technology, were excited and virtually mobbed the train when it landed. Seeing the huge crowd that struggled for condom, our correspondent sought the views of some of the young people who expressed new found love for condom. For Hanson Mensah, who is a student of Cross River State University of Technology, he was now aware of the usefulness of condom. He said: “Before, I did not like condom because our Pastor discouraged us from using it. He always preached abstinence but as a young man, abstinence looks very difficult and if I must do something, I should be guaranteed my protection. I don’t want to die now and I don’t know what the other person is coming with. Protection is better than cure.” Janet Effiong, a student of College of Education, Akamkpa, who was in Calabar to see her boyfriend, gave her reasons for encouraging her man to use condom. She said: “I do everything to encourage him because he is afraid of going for a test. We have been together for two years now and he has not been disposed to going for HIV test. That is why because I don’t want to lose him, I always buy condom for him because if I ask him to buy, he will tell me he cannot spend his money on such things. I love him. That is why I am doing that.” However, there are still a few people who are belligerent and insist that condom is not the solution to any infection. Akpan Mboto is in this category. He said: “All these stories about condom do not entice me because I see condom as man-made and anything that man makes does not last. Condom breaks, but more importantly, God gave us our natural bodies to meet and not with condom. Any woman who does not want to sleep with me without condom should go away. I cannot allow an artificial thing to take the place of the original.”