President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday expressed sadness over the death of Senator Joseph Kennedy Waku. Waku who represented Benue North West Senatorial District between 1999 and 2003, passed away at the National Hospital, Abuja yesterday at the age of 73. The President in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina commiserated with the family of the senator, who represented Benue North-West (1999- 2003) and the government and people of Benue State. Buhari recalled Waku’s contributions to the growth of education when he served as Pro-Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Akure. Also, a former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, has described the passing of Waku as a sad loss to the country. Kalu acknowledged Waku’s contributions to nation building in different capacities. According to the frontline politician , the former legislator was forthright, bold and humble in his lifetime. In a statement signed by his Special Adviser, Kunle Oyewumi, Kalu commiserated with the government and people of Benue State on the demise of their illustrious son. He said, “the passing of Senator Joseph Waku is painful. He was a firm believer in a just and fair society. Senator Waku’s contributions to national discourse were always patriotic. He will be remembered for his invaluable input to national discourse.” The President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, expressed deep sadness over the demise of Waku. Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, described the late Waku as a fearless and colourful politician, who spent the most productive period of his life in the service of God, country and humanity. Saraki said: “Senator Waku was a democrat and social activist. He cared so much about his people. He spoke truth to power not minding political correctness. He worked assiduously for the upliftment of his state in particular and Nigeria in general. “His leadership role in the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), marked him out as a consummate politician with the welfare of his country at heart. “As a Senator, he contributed immensely to the nation’s legislative development. His incisive interventions bear testimony to his rich experience, intellectual depth and urbane personality.” Also, the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday described the death of Waku as a monumental loss to the state and the country at large. Ortom said Senator Waku was his mentor and uncle who was defender of the common man and was also known for forthrightness, courage and love for fellow human beings. He said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Terver Akase, that Senator Waku was one of his ardent supporters, who encouraged him to face the task of governance at very difficult moments. The governor stated that Waku made numerous sacrificial contributions to Nigeria and Benue State in particular. He maintained that Waku was a man who promoted unity, equity, peace and justice for all Nigerians irrespective of ethnicity, religion and political leaning.