As part of efforts to reduce cases of obstetric fistula to the barest minimum, the Federal Government has inaugurated an Inter- Ministerial Committee on the establishment of the National Obstetric Fistula Centres across the country. Speaking during the inauguration, the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, said given the consequences of obstetric fistula on the reproductive health of women, government recognised the need to establish more centres to aid prevention and treatment of the disease. Adewole who noted that the Federal Government had designated three facilities located in Kaduna, Bauchi and Ebonyi States as National Obstetric Fistula centres for prevention, treatment, training and research, further explained that the National centres were expected to provide technical backstopping and act as referral centres to the several other health facilities were fistula cases were being diagnosed in the country. “The prevention and treatment of obstetric fistula is a priority of the Federal Government. Consequently, the establishment of more Obstetric Fistula Centres demonstrate government’s commitment to the improvement of the maternal and reproductive health indices. “Evidences abound that prevention is key; therefore, Government is working relentlessly to ensure availability of functional Primary HealthCare centres, skilled birth attendants, the supply of essential maternal Health commodities for the provision of quality antenatal care, safe delivery and postnatal care for women and children. “To this end, new centres would be located in Adamawa, Edo, Niger, Osun and Oyo states; with Oyo State site serving as a Regional centre,” he said The minister urged the Committee to come up with recommendations, strategies, interventions and roll- out plans for the establishment of the centres in addition to facilitating funding for the projects The Director, Family Health department of the ministry, Dr. Adebimpe Adebiyi, lamented that Nigeria bore about 40 per cent of the global burden of fistula, which she described as a serious and prevalent reproductive health challenge for women in the developing world. According to her, the elimination of the scourge from Nigeria would further improve the health and developmental indices as the country strives towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).