Chief Mike Ozekhome, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria in this interview with TUNDE OYESINA, explained the need to separate the office of the Attorney-General of the Federation from Minister of Justice  How would you look at the bench warrant issued against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen and his subsequent arraignment at the Code of Conduct Tribunal? It’s quite saddening and abhorrent to hear that the CCT issued a bench warrant for the arrest of CJN, Walter Nkanu Onnoghen. For God’s sake, this is bordering on vendetta, the ridiculous and trivialization of the judicial process. I condemn this unwholesome step which puts the CCT in the public domain as being on a vengeful and extra-legal mission against the CJN. It must be pointed out that this latest step by the CCT which has argued it is solely under the president and not under the judiciary appears to be teleguided by the dictatorial executive, especially the presidency. These are my reasons for this strong view. The NJC has since taken over the investigation of the CJN as provided for in Sections 153,158, 291, 292(2) and Section 21, Parts A and B to the 3rd Schedule to the Nigerian Constitution. The EFCC has since written a petition against the same NJC, using the same evidence as that before the CCT. The CCT has itself adjourned the CJN’s matter for argument on whether it even has jurisdiction at all to hear the case against the CJN. There are at least 4 courts orders directing the CCT to halt further proceedings. The CJN has not yet been physically arraigned before the CCT on the charges filed such as to give the CCT jurisdiction over the CJN. Under the Provisions of the ACJA, a person such as Justice Walter, can even be tried in absentia. He, therefore, does not have to be humiliated by being bundled to the court for arraignment like a common criminal. Is he then above the law? It is not a question of one being above the law. By virtue of Section 8 of the ACJA, every suspect is to be accorded humane treatment with dignity and no suspect is to be subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment. By virtue of Section 3(d) of the CCB/CCT Act, the CJN ought not have been charged at all before the CCT, given his admission of mistaken nonfull compliance with the declaration of his assets. The section provides that he shall not be charged before the CCT once he admits non-compliance. The matter ends there, as he shall be made to comply by being given fresh forms to fill and make full disclosure. The earlier order made by the CCT that the CJN shall step aside has since been appealed against to the Court of Appeal and the appeal ought to be allowed to run its full course. It is very clear to me that the CJN is being mob-lynched by the government and a section of the compromised or uninformed members of the public is being harassed, intimidated and deliberately painted with the paint brush of shame, all with a view to presenting a fait accompli as to why he must quit the seat of CJN. It is to put him in the moral dilemma of being unworthy to continue to occupy the exalted position of the CJN. This is, therefore, a complete travesty of justice, subversion of constitutionalism, breach of his fundamental rights and the executive’s unwarranted incursions into the sacred realm of the judiciary contrary to the hallowed doctrine of separation of powers ably propounded by Baron de Montesque, the great French Philosopher in 1748. I hereby call upon the CCT to exercise extreme caution and be mindful of the irretrievable damage it is doing to our constitutional democracy. It was some Justices in October 2016. It was the turn of the National Assembly especially the Senate, Saraki, Melaye, etc. Then, it became the turn of the media. Remember Daily Trust newspaper invasion? Now, it is Justice Walter Onnoghen. Who next? No one can tell. But, we know those who will never be touched with harassment or investigation: members of this government, inner circle, the cabal, their friends, family members, acolytes, minions, friends, bootlickers, defectors, cheer leaders. How would you describe the alleged role of the AGF on INEC and Zamfara state crisis? The AGF misinterpreted the ruling on Zamfara APC crisis. This is a party matter. It has nothing to do with the entire country. It is therefore surprising that the Honourable AGF, who should be the Chief Law Officer representing the interest of the whole and entire country, particularly under Section 174 of the Constitution could take sides by acting strictly for one political party, the APC. This is not how it should be. I was therefore taken aback when my client sent me a letter written by the Honourable AGF which also went viral based on a petition written by M. A. Magaji SAN to the effect that the ruling of the Court of Appeal in Sokoto was that the Yari group could go ahead and contest the election and that INEC should put their names on the ballot paper. With all respect, that is a lie from the pitof hell. Therewasneveranyruling by the Court of Appeal permitting them to contest, rather what the Court of Appeal saidwasthattheirmotionaskingforpermissiontoallowthemtocontesthavebeen overtaken by event and was dismissed along with a withdrawn appeal. I saw a letter by the leadership of APC to INEC, making the same misrepresentation that the Court of Appeal, Sokoto, permitted them to contest. Based on this misrepresentation and suppression of material facts, the Honourable AGF advised, wrote the INEC to shift the Zamfara election allegedly on the decision of the Court of Appeal which was wrongly interpreted. They cited Sections 38 and 39. These aresectionsthatdealwithwhenaprimary isfixedand theprimary couldnot take place on the appointed date. These are primaries that took place in October last year. What the section is saying is that INEC can postpone election in that area when they have not been able to quickly come up with a candidate. But that is not the case here. APC is not saying that they never came up with a candidate. They came up with candidates and that automatically remove them from the radar of Section 38 and 39. Section 38 envisaged a situation where no candidate has been presented. What the AGF wants to do is to obtain through the back door what they have not been able to get through the front door. In other words, they are trying to circumvent the litigation process going on in all the courts in Nigeria. And you cannot do that. Judicial process cannot be side-tracked. There is nothing to postpone. INEC should not be blackmailed into agreeing to change constitutional position on this matter. It was self-internal implosion by the APC that should not be allowed to affect over 70 other political parties. The APC just erected a symbol of broom at the City gate, how will you react to this? That is the highest form of irresponsibility on the part of the ruling party. In other countries, we have towers. For instance, we have like Abu Khalifat towers in Dubai. You are coming to a country and the first thing you are seeing is broom, which is the symbol of one out of over 70 political parties. If PDP had done this when they were in power by putting up a giant umbrella, they will be the first person to scream. If other political parties that have symbol of cockerel have done same or palm tree, they will be screaming. How do you now use the symbol of one political party to amount to a national symbol; it is degrading because a foreigner had called me to ask me that he heard that there is a giant broom erected at the entrance to my country’s capital. I said yes. He said what does it represent in Nigeria? I said it is not of any historic symbol but a symbol of a political party. He said “what, and you people allowed that?” How do you describe this administration in terms of protection of human rights? We are under locust days like 1984 where democracy receded and absolutism, terror, fascism and dictatorship emerged. That is what we are going through. Let me tell you, it is the job of the press to fight the monstrosity, subversion of the Constitution, the rule of law and collective and fundamental human right. Don’t always support evil because it has not yet come to you. Let us not always say, after all it is them. When in October 2016 after the invading of some judges houses, some lawyers clapped, saying that the ACJA allows security agents to break into a house at any time. They did not look at Section 8 of ACJA that say you must treat a suspect with humanity and you must not commit degradation of their rights. I warned Nigerians then that they will come for you. After that, they went for the National Assembly, persecuted the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki because he was not agreeing with them. They locked up the National Assembly; put the Senate President and Deputy Senate President under house arrest. Some people still clapped because it did not affect then. Then, we saw that they carried the battle to the media. They went to Daily Trust Newspaper and locked it up. I went to the television, I issued press releases. The pressure was so much that they were forced to move out of the premises. Now they have come for the CJN, that they are mob lynching. In spite of the clear provision of the law, some people are still clapping. By the time full blown dictatorship takes effect, no one will be exempted; nobody will be allowed to speak again because if you speak, they will come for you in your room. May we never get to that point in Jesus Name, amen. What is your view on the separation of office of Minister of Justice and the AGF? I have always been advocating the separation of the office of the AGF under Section 174 of the Constitution from that of Minister of Justice. I so proved this idea in 2014 National Conference that it was engrafted into the resolution. The Minister of Justice is necessarily a politician. You can appoint any person but when you talk of an Attorney-General of the Federation, he is the Chief Law Officer of the Federation, and not of the ruling party. In fact, the AGF can take up cases on behalf of the people and sue the government because he is Independent of the government. There are in built mechanism on how he should be appointed. But when an AGF as a minister go and hold meeting with politicians and attend campaign rally, then you are no longer playing the role of an AGF. What is your suggestion on how to go about the separation of the two offices? The Constitution will need to be amended under Section 9 of the Constitution. It is a whole amendment of the Constitution. Section 174 deals with the functions of the AGF and the other one dealing with his appointment. A Bill cannot be used to amend a Constitution. If it were to be by way of ordinary Bill, it would have been better to do it. It has been pushed through. I think in the ongoing amendment, it will scale through that the office of the AGF should be separated from the office of the Minister of Justice.