The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Bauchi State, Alhaji Ibrahim Abdullahi, has said that no fewer than 33,972 Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) are yet to be collected in the state.  The INEC commissioner disclosed this during a stakeholders’ meeting on the preparedness of the general election slated to hold on February 16 and March 2, held at INEC office, Bauchi. The REC said as at January 10, a total of 32,972 permanent voter cards were yet to be collected, which according to him, was about ninety per cent of the total voter cards received  for distribution in the state.  He said the commission had recruited ad hoc staff that would man the conduct of the election, adding that the recruitment was strictly based on the policies and guidelines of INEC. According to him, the commission had received all the required non-sensitive materials, adding that the last batch of the materials was being offloaded at the Central Bank in which representatives of political parties would witness the distribution of the election materials.  “I am appealing to political parties who fielded candidates to comply with section 45 of the Electoral Act 2010 as amended, which provides that each political party must notify the electoral officer of the local government in writing to appoint a polling agent for each polling unit and coalition centre in the local government for which it has a candidate.  “The notice must state the name and address of the polling agents, which will be given to the electoral body at least seven days before the date fixed for the election,” he said. Speaking in the same line with the INEC boss, Commissioner of Police, Bauchi State Command, Aliyu Janda, said all government officials had been banned from monitoring the election.  He said: “The election will be peaceful and credible, the police will post men in all polling units. We will allow all eligible voters to cast their votes and elect their leaders, restrictions of movement would be restricted and we will not allow government officials to monitor election any longer.”  He urged politicians to play by the rules for the week of peace in the country, while calling on politicians not to use other people’s children as thugs, but rather use their children if thuggery was a good job. The stakeholders’ meeting was attended by security agents, leaders of political parties, religious leaders, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and the media, among others.