At least 66 people were killed when bandits and residents clashed at Danjigba near Tsafe Local Government Area of Zamfara State.  Seven villagers were said to have been killed when the about 180 bandits invaded the town and opened fire on residents.  A source from Danjibga town told New Telegraph that the bandits invaded the community on Tuesday about 4.45p.m.
According to him, they were on motorcycles and armed with sophisticated weapons.  However, the petrified villagers later summoned courage to confront their assailants. The residents, buoyed by the presence of local vigilantes, mobilised and engaged the bandits in a fierce battle, said to have lasted for about four hours. When the dust settled, 59 of the bandits were killed. As at yesterday, there were fears that the bandits could regroup and re-launch attack on the community. But the villagers were not letting down their guard; they were preparing for another round of resistance against the expected invaders.
Yesterday morning, military vehicles loaded with soldiers were already in the town to check further killing.  The Acting Force Information Officer, Major Clement Abiade, said the military authorities were aware of the incident and had drafted troops to the area. A resident, Chairman Malaha, said the villagers were compelled to resist the bandits because they were tired of extortion.  According to him, the bandits recently abducted more than 100 villagers from Danjibga and forced them to pay between N5 million and N15 million The community is a commercial town, which is home to a crop of rich people. This makes the residents easy targets for the bandits.  At a wedding ceremony recently, the bandit, who reportedly disguised as women, killed the family head and abducted more than 15 women. They also kept the women hostage for more than 20 days .
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Shehu Mohammad, said the bandits ambushed the farmers of Danjibga town working in their farms and killed six of them. Mohammad added that when the report of the incident reached the Divisional Police Officer of Tsafe Local Government Area, he quickly mobilised the Mobile Police and the military to the scene where they met none of the bandits as they had fled after the attack.
The PPRO added that the policemen and soldiers evacuated the six bodies of farmers killed by the bandits.  He said normalcy had been restored in the area. Ten additional communities have been sacked by bandits at Mada town in the Gusau Local Government Area of Zamfara State. A News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent, who visited the town yesterday learnt that one person was killed during the incident, which took place on June 6. About 200 bandits… In "Metro and Crime" The House of Representatives, yesterday, disclosed that the armed bandits who attacked some communities and killed over 30 people issued threat letters to the villagers, warning them to pay some millions or risk being attacked. The lower chamber also said the violent invasion was carried out by about 100 of… In "News" …target rural communities, demand ransom   Amnesty International (AI) yesterday disclosed that at least 371 people have been killed in the last seven months as the wave of insecurity rocking Zamfara State escalated in recent weeks. The bandits have intensified the killings and kidnappings, particularly in remote agrarian communities and… In "Metro and Crime"