Ahead of the epic presidential election tomorrow, the major contenders in this poll, the All Progressives Congress’ candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari and his counterparts in the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), Atiku Abubakar are set to lock horns in one of the fiercest electoral battles in the past 20 years. Put together, a total of 84 million voters are registered for this year’s election, representing 15 million over the figure in 2015 which stood at 68 million. Each of the presidential candidates is expected to score 25 per cent of vote cast in two third of the 36 states of the federation and Abuja. But beyond winning the mandatory votes, some states in the country are of strategic importance to the political parties, and would form the battle ground in tomorrow’s election for various reasons. The states identified as theatre of war are selected because of the number of registered voters, voting patterns in the last elections and the strategic economic importance of the states. Another denominator is the caliber of political heavy weights who have defected into various parties since he last election and the readiness to prove a point. The states are Anambra, Adamawa and Akwa Ibom states. Others are Kano, Kaduna, Lagos and Rivers states. A breakdown of the strategic position of each of the states is as follows. Lagos Lagos State has the highest number of registered voters, totaling with 6.5 million and the share number is close to a quarter of the entire vote cast in the country in 2015. Besides, it is the largest economy in Nigeria and the fifth in the entire Africa. Besides, the Lagos, the former federal capital is also of great importance to the APC and the PDP because of its cosmopolitan nature and heavy in-roads the PDP made into the state winning over 659, 788 votes to APC’s 811,994 in the governorship poll in 2015 and seats in the state House of Assembly and House of Representatives was shocking to political godfathers in the state. But more crucial this time is the ego factor as the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other party leaders and ministers in the state might exhibit in this election. Asiwaju, only yesterday stated his readiness to spend every dime to win the state. Tinubu said: “Traditionally, I usually dish out money a day to the election for mobilisation to aid our members and in logistics. But this time around, I have changed my strategy. I have decided that I will no longer give money before the election but I will have the list of all our members and compensate those who deliver their polling units. The higher the number of votes; the more the compensation you are going to get. “When I say I will do something, I will do it. The compensation I plan to give is already in the bank but I won’t tell you which bank. I am not here to buy votes or make empty promises. In Lagos, we do not believe in violence and we don’t rig elections. We are confident that we will win. “I am ready to finance the election in Lagos. I am not going to collect any money from Buhari for the election; he doesn’t have money for Lagos election. What I promised to mobilise you for election is coming from my pocket. I don’t need to go to Alausa before I can give you money.” Kano State After Lagos, Kano is the next state with highest number of registered voters with 5.4 million spread across its 44 local governments. In the 2015 elections, the state contributed 1, 903, 999 to the victory of President Buhari leaving PDP with 215, 779. This time around, it is a battleground because of the division in the ranks of party leaders in the state. The return of former Senator Rabiu Kwakwaso to the PDP and defection of former Education Minister and one time governor, Ibrahim Shekarau to the APC, coupled with Atiku’s popularity is expected to split the votes. Already, the APC leadership in the state is already jittery. Kaduna Like Kano, Kaduna is another top APC state which shall from the fulcrum of major contest among the two parties. The governor, Nasir El-Rufai, whose party delivered a total of 1, 127, 760 votes to Buhari in 2015 as against PDP’s 434, 085 is determined to sustain the trend, though his party has been struck by major dispute in recent times with the defection of some key politicians. To worsen matters, El-Rufai’s aggression against the opposition and the recent foreboding message to the international community when he said anyone who interferes in the election will return to his country in body bags is troubling. Even at that, the opposition is not taking their ambition lying low. Anambra The homestead of the Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP, Peter Obi is also a battleground because much as Obi will want to make a big show, he also has to contend with the enemy within- the state governor who is covertly supporting President Buhari and hordes of political heavy weight contenders for various elective offices there. In the 2015 presidential election, APC scored 17, 926 as against PDP’s 660, 762 Rivers State Rivers State is also of strategic interest for various reasons. Not just because it has been a hotbed of hostilities, as the dratis personae like Governor Nyesom Wike on the one hand and the Director-General of the Buhari Campaign Organisation, Chibuike Amaechi are leaving nothing to chance to deliver the state to the APC. On his part, Wike, a staunch PDP leader has proven to be a dogged fighter in a state that also notorious for violent election. In the 2015 election, APC scored a paltry 69, 238 votes against PDP’s 1, 487, 461. Its economic status is also of interest as Rivers is one of the topmost oil producing states which the APC is trying to win. Sokoto In 2015, Senator Aliyu Wamakko as then Sokoto State governor did everything possible to ensure that he handed over power to the then Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal. Both have been in the same political camps for many years. They defected from the PDP to APC prior to the 2015 general elections, and their defection from the ruling party to the opposition party led to the sack of PDP at the federal level. But, Governor Tambuwal in his quest to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari dumped APC for PDP on August 2, 2018. He took part in the party’s presidential primary and despite the support of Governor Wike and other PDP gladiators, who wanted him to emerge as the party’s presidential candidate, he lost to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. With the present state of things in Sokoto State, Wamakko and Tambuwal will engage in a battle of supremacy. Having lost out in the presidential primary election, Tambuwal is now battling to seek re-election in the governorship poll on the platform of PDP, while Wamakko, who is APC leader in the state is also working hard to ensure that his candidate and incumbent deputy governor, Ahmed Aliyu, win the 2019 governorship election on the platform of APC. Akwa Ibom The defection Senator Godswill Akpabio to the APC in Akwa-Ibom State has raised the bar in the contest as the former governor will do nothing to win the state for President Buhari. The entry of the NDDC Managing Director, Nsima Ekere to the governorship race is another factor. Governor Udoh Emmanuel whose party has lost many party bigwigs to the APC too is putting up a great fight for the PDP, in the fae of palpable fear of federal might and violence. Recall that Akpabio has been quoted as boasting that the election in Akwa Ibom would witness a ‘WarSaw’ strategy. This couple with APC’s quest to have more oil-producing state is a major factor in the battle. While APC scored 58, 411 in the presidential election in 2015 and as against PDP’s 953, 304, the margin will at least reduce this time with the defections. Adamawa The home of the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, but currently in the grips of the APC is another contentious ground. Atiku, who was first elected governor of the state in 1999 before his selection as Vice President to Chief Olusegun Obasanjo would want to prove that his charity begins at home by winning the state landslide. Unlike in the 2015 when APC scored 374,701 as against PDP’s 251,664, Atiku seems set to reverse the scores, even as the incumbent Governor Jubrila Bindow will not watch without making a strong statement. Tinubu’s recent statement and those of other major party leaders have hightened the stakes.