The National Legal Adviser of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Barr. Emmanuel Enoidem, spoke with TONY ANICHEBE on the rift between Senator Godswill Akpabio and Gov. Emmanuel Udom, among other issues. Excerpts…   As one of his trusted commissioners, and with your closeness to former Governor Godswill Akpabio, many people believe that you would join him at the APC, why did you stay back in the PDP?
That is because I am Emmanuel Enoidem, secondly I have something I live for. My life was founded on some basic principles that cannot be violated. One of them is consistency; others are sincerity and commitment to things I believe in. I am that politician who don’t just believe in only winning elections but on strict principles which cannot be swept away by politics no matter the coloration. Again, we are running a party system and I am a foundation member of the PDP in Akwa Ibom State as far back as 1998 and I don’t believe that there is any difference between all the political parties, politicians only run from pillar to post in the name of joining political party. As at August 2018 when Akpabio left the PDP, there is no party that is as organic, organised, and experienced as PDP, it is the longest political party that had been in power in the history of Nigeria without changing its name or logo since 1999. Being a foundation member, won’t Akpabio’s exit affect your party?
Akpabio was not a co-founder of PDP, he only joined us in 2002 and by God’s grace, he became a commissioner, later became a governor and now a senator. I was already in the party when he joined us and became a commissioner. When he became governor in 2007, it was by sheer grace of God. In 2015 when we lost the presidential election, the political moral of PDP members was very low, I went round electronic media houses in the state to talk and boost the morale of our members and people ask me if loosing the centre will now force me to APC, I said capital no. I don’t like APC’s logo and symbol, the broom. I can never dump the umbrella for the broom. I also know that APC as a party is an assemblage of strange bed fellows. It is one organisation that will not stand the test of time. If the APC loses the 2019 election the party will be in shambles. PDP was like a sleeping lion at the point we lost election. When I was opportune to become the National Legal Adviser, I knew that we are going to wake up the lion to roar again. How did your people take Akpabio’s exit?
When Akpabio left it was a surprise to everybody. I don’t believe in that type of politics where one is also looking for a comfort zone. I am the type of politician who is comfortable under any situation. I am not a politician who wants to perpetually remain in power and I see no reason Akpabio should join APC apart from selfishness, there is no other explanation. I am not a selfish person to the point of jettisoning my ideals just because I want to join the ruling party at the centre. I told people in 2015 that even if Akapbio and Udom Emmanuel leave the PDP to APC that I will stay back. Today nothing has changed to make me change that decision. There was no basis or reasons to even make me contemplate joining Akpabio to APC. On 25th of December 2017, I went to see Akpabio at his country home before I could even inform him of my mission, he told me things are not normal that he wants to leave the party and I told him that such words should not come from a leader and that he should not allow others to hear what he told me. Many of his supporters believe that Akpabio has a role to play at the centre. Don’t you agree?
I told him that he will have no role to play in APC outside following them around with Agbada and as I said, he has no role to play there up till now. Nigeria of today would have been President Buhari on one side and Akpabio on the other side as the leader of opposition in Nigeria. The two of them would have been the most serious politicians in the country but he abandoned the role of opposition leadership in Nigeria and succumb to pressure. The same pressure is being mounted on everybody, I don’t know why he succumbed and abandoned his role as opposition leader to be doing nothing presently. Did anyone in the PDP had premonition of his exit?
On 28th of July, when we had a meeting to receive people from other political parties, the way he was talking and behaving gave him away, then senators Dino Melaye, Abiodun Olujimi and one other senator called him and invited me to be a witness in what they wanted to ask him and by the time we finished, he was blaming Governor Emmanuel. I told him that from his countenance and actions that he had made up his mind to leave the party. I asked him if he had thought about the consequences of abandoning his party for the APC and he asked if that will make him fail election, but I told him that election was the least on my mind.
I told him that as a leader in Akwa Ibom politics that his departure will bring out dislocation in the state politics and that is what we are seeing now, with the attendant insults heaped on him daily by PDP supporters. They cannot comprehend how a man can serve as a commissioner for six years, governor for eight years and senator for four years and stand on podium to criticise the party he benefited from immensely. It is unheard off and not something that can be condoned, any outrage against Akpabio today is in order. There is growing fears that the APC government may employ ‘federal might’ to wrest power from PDP in the state. What is your take?.
It is a mind game. They don’t have the numerical strength to win election in Akwa Ibom. The highest number APC can get during election in the state is 30 per cent, and that can never torpedo the 70 per cent will of the people, even if they bring in Army Generals for the election. Aren’t you scared?
Some of us had been marked for arrest before the election, we are waiting for them. They are free to come with their Army, DSS, Navy and what have you but they are not winning election in Akwa Ibom State. It is loud and clear that they will fail, they don’t have the number and Akwa Ibom people will not be intimidated during the general election, this is not Ekiti or Osun election. I have heard that there will generate insecurity to get election postponed here for a later date but even if it happens we will still win the APC, any time, any day and any moment. It is very shameful for those who have benefitted from the people of the state in the past to contemplate using the federal might against them in the coming election. It is wrong for any person who have led the state with the support of the people in the past to contemplate arresting his people or cow them because of election. It is the highest form of cowardice and shamelessness for anybody to bring security agencies here because he wants to seize power doing election. The person is contemplating military coup not election, if they have the number why looking for self help. Election is supposed to be a civil responsibility in a peaceful environment where voters exercise their franchise, any other thing is a military coup. One of Akpbaio’s complaints was that Governor Emmanuel was not fair to his Ikot Ekpene Senatorial Districts in project execution. Dont you agree with him on this?
Is his name Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District? The was looking for excuses. Akpabio has no reason to leave PDP apart from the fact that he wants to be seen behind powers at the federal level. We gave Akpabio senate minority leader in 2015 but he never performed the functions of that office for one day till he left on 8th of August, 2018. He was a governor for eight years nobody controlled or stage managed him for those years. So, he should have allowed Emmanuel to operate his government. Attah did not dictate to Akpabio as governor. I asked him in January, 2018 in the presence of the deputy governor to tell us who ever manipulated him. I told him to go and face the responsibility God has firmly put on his shoulder at the national level. I told him that he is no more a state but national leader. There is no reason for Emmanuel not to develop Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, there are other districts in Akwa Ibom State also. There are places Akpabio has no opportunity to develop and Udom Emmanuel needs to touch those areas even in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District. To be objective, Akpabio did not touch Ikono and Ini Council Areas in his developmental strides. But he was adjudged as one of the best governors of his time.
Yes, he performed as a governor but he could not have touched everywhere and Governor Udom Emmanuel is doing those ones. Akpabio did nothing in Oruk Anam Council Area which is in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District and Emmanuel is working there. Is it not part of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District and Akwa Ibom State? Is it not because Emmanuel did not touch Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District that informs his departure. I can say authoritatively that Udom Emmanuel have been a good successor to Godswill Akpabio in all ramification. He protected the former governor. The most important part of a leader is to cover the fault of his predecessor, Emmanuel has discharged that responsibility very well beyond expectation, to the extent of filing cases in court to protect his predecessor. There is nothing anybody can do beyond that.
In terms of projects continuation, for those he can convince himself to do, he has done them. For those he has not convinced himself to do he has not done, just like Akpabio cannot convince himself to do the Science Park left behind by ex-governor Attah. Emmanuel is continuing projects like dualised road to Ikot Ekpene from Uyo and the four-star hotel in Ikot Ekpene, etc. You must give a governor or anybody in the position of authority some level of discretion to exercise. WHy are you so passionate about the 2nd term ambition of Governor Emmanuel? Has he done enough to deserve it?
Look at his five-point agenda of industrialisation, poverty eradication, creation of jobs, political inclusion and consolidation of infrastructures. Put down the five points agenda, list his projects and style of governance and see if he has not performed beyond expectation. Most of the people that fought him during the primaries are now in the PDP. He has done several projects including ones in the power sector. We have sub power stations courtesy of him. See the number of roads constructed which is part of his credit, before now none was in existence. The industries are employing people, see agriculture and production of rice, a stable food, which is now available in the state. A staple food like garri is everywhere because his government has encouraged and empowered people to go into agriculture. These are the things he promised Akwa Ibom State, these are the things he has done for Akwa Ibom State. A lot of people have gotten employment, it can’t go round at once because the bad economy started at the national level. The recession was started by the APC-led Federal Government not governor Emmanuel. APC leaders alleged that your party is importing thugs in preparation for the elections. How true is this?
PDP is on ground in the state and has no reason to bring in machineries for election. The foundation of the heated polity today is the famous ‘warsaw’, saw and war by their leader in the state. So, if blames are to be apportioned for insecurity in the state it should go to the APC leaders. We have heard that they are planning to come under the cover of official security to bring in militants that will carry arms against the PDP. They have confessed it and are planning to implement it. Do you see your party retaining the state?
Of course. In spite of all the noise they are making, my personal intelligence shows that supporters of the APC in the state are not more than 25 to 30 per cent of the voting population. It is not possible for them to get more than that. Are you part of those who believe that President Buhari will lose the coming election?
APC will lose election at the centre. If you are following the trend in Nigerian politics, you will know that we don’t have a president in Nigeria. The man we call our president today does not have the mental capacity to run the country. All the myths they said about Buhari’s ability to ensure adequate security, sound economy and corrupt-free nation had failed. Today, Boko Haram has dominated most parts of the North and making inroads into some parts of that South East.
For the economy, all indices of development were positive in 2015. Nigeria was the fastest developing economy in Africa and second in the world with 7.2 percent GDP. Today, our GDP is minus 9 and they are claiming that it was 1.9 which I called their own statistics. Nigeria has become the world headquarters of poverty overtaking India, which held the position consistently for years. China has 1.8 billion people, India 1.2 billion people, we overtook them with just 200 million people. Talking about corruption, Buhari said anybody talking about subsidy is a fraud but he has paid N4.3 trillion in subsidy without appropriation. Nepotism is the worst form of corruption in the world where you have all important positions concentrated in one section of the country with multi-ethnic, multi-religious nation like Nigeria. This is the first time it has ever happened not even under the military rule. The appointment Buhari made throughout his tenure 75 per cent are from the North but some zombies down the South are falling over themselves to support the man to come back for second term but Nigerians are saying no, this is not the Buhari they knew. The Buhari of 2018/19 had been demystified from the Buhari of 2015, that is why I am saying that APC cannot win this election.
Physically, the president is not fit to continue in office, Nigerian presidency is not a sick bay. It is a very rigorous, demanding and asserting office. So, we don’t need the sick but strong and healthy people to rule us. We were told that he was advised by his doctors to work for only three hours a day but we cannot move forward with a president who works three hours a day, when other country’s presidents are working 23 hours a day.
The president spent many months in London hospital or on bed at Aso Villa, and we are talking about returning him to power. The coming election will not be on sympathy ground. If the president is not fit, let him go home to Daura and rest. For these reasons, it will not be possible for Nigerians to vote for APC at the centre again. Some have argued that the former deputy governor and PDP candidate for Ikot Ekpene, Engr. Chris Ekpenyong, is no match for Akpabio. Don’t you think so?
The coming election is party based. It is between APC and PDP. Election is not a beauty contest, many things are at stake. Akpabio insulted his Annang kinsmen when we offered him a return ticket to the Senate; he told us to our faces that he can win election any day on any political platform.
We have not forgotten how he carried the mandate we gave him and donated it to Buhari in London in a very subdued manner, we have not forgotten it in a hurry. All of us in the PDP are going for this election not Ekpenyong alone. How many people left with Akpabio to APC in Ikot Ekpene? The PDP generals in Ikot Ekpene are intact, the only man that left with him, Mr Otu Robert Akpan, has retired from politics. Councillors in Etim Ekpo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State yesterday said that former Senate Minority Leader and former governor of the state, Chief Godswill Akpabio and the member representing Abak federal constituency, Hon. Emmanuel Ekon, offered them N5 million each and new vehicles to defect from the Peoples… In "News" The planned defection of former governor of Akwa Ibom State and Senate Minority Leader, Senator Godswill Akpabio, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has unsettled his successor, Governor Udom Emmanuel and the leadership of the opposition party. Akpabio, a two-term governor of the… In "News" Thousands of members of the All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State yesterday surrendered their broom and joined the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP).   Led by the Director General of the APC State Campaign Organization, Chief Sunny Udom, the APC members condemned the precarious condition their party had plunged… In "News"