Recently, the Korea Cultural Centre in Nigeria was literally shut down for the Lunar New Year Festival. REGINA OTOKPA reports  The popular pidgin adage which says “Nigerians no dey carry last”, is the best way to describe the 2019 Korean Lunar New Year festival known as the Seollal, celebrated at the Korea Cultural Centre Nigeria (KCCN) premises in Abuja.
Five minutes past the startup time of the event, there was barely space for guests in the large auditorium and for the religious latecomers. They had to stand all through the festival, as Abuja residents took over the centre to mark the special occasion with the Koreans.
Seollal, the first day of the lunar calendar, is one of the most celebrated national holidays in Korea, which usually runs for three days. Besides paying respect to ancestors and catching up with family members, Koreans perform ancestral rites, play folk games, eat traditional foods, visit places of interest and engage in telling and listening to stories.
Most importantly is the Sebae, New Year’s Bow before the elders of one’s family and neighborhood, followed immediately by presentation of money as gift to the younger ones.
The guests did not only engage in Yutnori (board game), Tuho (arrow-throwing) and Jegichagi (kicking and keeping an object in the air), but they equally got hand gloves from the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics as gifts.
According to the Director of KCCN, Han Sungrae, having so many Nigerians join Koreans to celebrate its very important festival was heartwarming, as such events helps in promoting unity and understanding between both countries and its people.
The Programmes Manager, KCCN, Jee Meeyoun, who expressed delight over the increased level of acceptability of its culture was beginning to get from Nigeria, noted that before now, Koreans were usually mistaken to be either Japanese or Chinese due to some similarities. She however said as a result of the centres’ various cultural activities displaying Korean rich cultures and heritage, Nigerians have been able to distinguish the difference between people from the three countries.
“We usually celebrate the first day of lunar calendar. We want to show our traditional holidays; how it is, what kind of performance and activities we do. We want to introduce them to Nigerians.
“The primary objective of establishing the KCCN is to promote our culture but when we established it, it was not so promoted to Nigerians. They were always confusing which country was which between China, Japan and Korea. They can’t distinguish and this is why we try to promote and show them our own culture correctly.
“China and many Asian countries actually celebrate Lunar New Year. The culture is quite similar but we have our own costumes, food, and performance like the Sebae.
“Nigerians love our culture. As you can see today, so many people came than we expected. The souvenirs we prepared are already finished. The more they come, the more excited we are because the numbers make us feel and shows that Nigerian people like our culture,” she said.
Princess Ajonu, a student of Modest Secondary School, Maitama, who told Inside Abuja she enjoyed the food and the games played, used the occasion to enjoin Nigerians to embrace the Korean sport, Taekwondo, to build morals in the country.
“I would like to encourage people to take part in Taekwondo. Parents, especially should encourage their kids because it a very good sport and can be used for self defence especially when facing bullies. Since I joined the Taekwondo club in 2014, it has helped in building my self esteem and moral principles,” she said.
Niferua is known for its cultural diversity, and its people are always eager to participate in cultural activities local or foreign.