At least 30 houses were burnt yesterday by suspected political thugs in some communities in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The houses burnt had the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) posters pasted on them. There has been an outbreak of pre-election violence in parts of the state in the last one week with some lives lost and property worth millions of naira destroyed. The two major political parties in the state, PDP and APC, have continued to trade blames over the violence. This is even as the state Commissioner of Police, Awosola Awotunde, yesterday in Abakaliki appealed for calm from residents over the attacks carried out by suspected political thugs. Awotunde, who spoke with journalists after his assessment visits to areas affected by the violence, vowed that police would ensure that perpetrators of the dastardly acts were arrested and brought to book. Condemning the attacks and destruction of over 30 houses and property in Izzi Local Government Area, the commissioner described the incident as barbaric and man’s inhumanity to man. Awotunde also warned against any reprisal. The commissioner said those involved in the attacks and their sponsors would be arrested and prosecuted. He said: “We appeal for calm and assure the public that police will spare no efforts in ensuring that everyone who is involved in the dastardly act is brought to book, including their sponsors. “The police further reassure the public of commitment to protection of lives and property of every citizen of the state before, during and after the elections.” Awotunde also sympathised with victims during the visits. Narrating his ordeal, a victim of the attack, Donatus Nwofe, told journalists at Aguabata, Agbaja community in Izzi Local Government Area that he lost two of his buildings and property worth several millions of naira to the attack. Nwofe, who is the chairman of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP), Ebonyi State Council, said the suspected political thugs invaded his compound and shot sporadically before setting the houses ablaze. He said: “I lost everything; even the boxer I am wearing was donated to me by a sympathiser. As you can see, no pin was removed from the burnt down houses. “We now live in fear as no one knows when the hoodlums will attack again with their AK47 rifles and other weapons. “I am appealing to police to beef up security in the community and I am also calling on state and Federal Governments to come to the rescue of the victims of the attacks.” Another victim, Mr. Pa u l i nus Onyike, said the suspected political thugs from a major political party invaded Izenyi in Agbaja community and set houses suspected to belong to members of the opposition ablaze. He said the suspected political thugs first shot indiscriminately before setting houses and other valuables ablaze. Onyike described the attacks as barbaric and called for proper investigation and arrest of the perpetrators. Meanwhile, the leadership of APC and PDP yesterday accused each other of masterminding the attacks. The APC Chairman, Eze Nwachukwu, said his members bore the brunt of the attacks. He described the attacks as unprovoked war and urged police and other security agencies to intensify security surveillance in the state. The party warned that it would no longer tolerate any attack on its members and urged police to arrest and prosecute perpetrators of the violent attacks. Nwachukwu chronicled the incident to include attack on the senatorial candidate of the party in Ebonyi South Senatorial District, Mr. Nweze Onu, attacks on APC members, destruction of their houses and property in Izzi Local Government Area. He said: “All these incidents have been duly reported to the police in the state and we call on the police to ensure that perpetrators are arrested and brought to justice. “We also call on all our members and supporters to remain resolute, refuse to be intimidated as we assure victims of the party’s resolve to bring justice.” But in a swift reaction, the state PDP Chairman, Onyekachi Nwebonyi, denied the allegations. He said: “It is not true; they are the ones attacking our members. I had briefed you on the killing of two persons on Sunday who were attached by political thugs while six others were injured. “PDP has been very peaceful despite the provocations. The governor, who is a man of peace, has continued to calm the party faithful down and urging them not to retaliate despite the provocations.” Nwebonyi decried the attacks and called on security agencies to fish-out the perpetrators and bring them to book. He added: “I want to use this medium to condemn the wanton destruction of properties and killing of innocent Nigerians all over the nation. “Of particular interest is the wanton destruction of properties and killing of innocent Ebonyians in Ebonyi State. The opposition in the state are visibly out to instigate violence in Ebonyi State so as to scare voters from coming out to vote. “I therefore warn them to desist from this act which is capable of causing unrest in the state. Let me also call on the security agencies in the state to immediately investigate these killings and wanton destruction of properties to ensure that these do not escalate.”