To ensure drug security, stakeholders in the pharmaceutical industry has been advocating increase in local production of essential drugs from the present 40 to 45 per cent to 75 per cent. To achieve this feat, the environment has to be conducive for production. Other factors must also be in place for this to work. In this interview, the current President of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa discusses how policy inconsistency, infrastructure deficit, policies that are not sensitive to local production, uncontrolled national border, among others contribute to reduce the production of drugs. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports  Background to local production of drugs It will be recalled that in 1994 when we started in the National Economic Summit Group (NESG), we were trying to get Nigeria to work on the right side of national global economy and we made some successes with the former Interim President Ernest Sonekan who was Head of State then, but the moment late military ruler, Gen Sani Abacha succeeded Sonekan, he just blocked us. Governments always want to have control over factors of production, but all over the world it has been found that this is not possible. Even countries, which ideologically like the Soviet Union believe in the government control of all the factors of production, have begun to let loose. There was a time China was closed, but today, China has opened up to forces of supply and demand and have allowed international trade to predominate. What is critical here is that there is this natural proclivity to want to control things by the government. It’s natural to all governments; hence, letting go is always an issue. So, the battle has to go on. Every once in a while, they (governments) will open the door and at some point, they will start regretting.
May be what they thought should happen did not happen and they want to reverse it. We have seen those policy reversals and they have hurt the pharmaceutical industry as well as the economy because investment in value addition is long-term. People project 20 to 25 years to put factories and industries in place because the time to get their money is also long-tern. Look at what’s happening today when you go to the stock market there is issues, there’s uncertainty about what will happen post elections and investors have alternatives. They don’t want to stay in a market that’s unstable. Need to prioritise pharmaceutical industry The basic thing is the difficulty of the country to realise that certain industries need to be treated slightly differently. Nigeria for example started the ECOWAS Common Currency and its applicable to every product without realising that in the case of pharmaceuticals, if the same rules is applied, it could cause the complete closure of certain plants because if the Federal Government makes finished drugs product zero tariff while raw materials get high tariff, logically people will go to the area where they can bring in finished goods which go with zero duty. Policies like that, which promote importation should be addressed.  Why governments should practice what they preaches Governments preach what they do not practice. Almost every government preaches this slogan, but go and check the furniture government officials are sitting on, check the cars they are riding and check their medicine supply. Do I need to give you the examples of even people at the highest level of governance who do not trust our own health system, hence can’t take the medicine we produce here. On the contrary, whenever such officials seek care in London in the United Kingdom (UK), China, the United States, they take medicines supplied by those countries freely. That is the reality of our situation. Government leaders must use made in Nigeria medicines and even procure same.
Government must practice what it preaches, believe in its products and insist on their use locally. The governments must show in words and actions that it needs to support local industry, especially the pharmaceutical industry.   What fuels low medicine production Another issue is the management of the nation’s pharmaceutical space. If I am producing products and it costs me N10 to manufacture for me to remain in business I must sell it N11 or N12. However, if somebody goes to China, arrives Nigeria with suitcases and but declares something else such as phones, but brings in some drugs into the country but many times not through the normal channel. The goods come in and the landing price is N6. The man beings it in and is selling at N8. Even if I sell mine N10 which is cost price, I certainly cannot sell more than he (the importer) will sell. My productivity is the consequence of my ability to have uptake. Having sold what I produced, will I produce more? That is why there is reduction in production: it’s not caused by lack of capacity. Many companies have invested, but because of the inability to control our borders, a lot of smugglers are bringing finished drugs into the country. Drugs will come and they will come with other things including narcotics and other banned drugs. They come into the open market and before you know the imported drugs are available everywhere. These are the issues impeding the local production of drugs in the country and we should confront them. If we don’t confront them, we will be deceiving ourselves.  Areas of focus You will be shocked to hear that the pharmaceutical industry is still importing ingredients such as starch, sugar, all kinds of additives and colouring, which are used to colour tablets and syrups. I have found that these things can even be done even locally from natural sources including plants. We want to go the national research centres – the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD) in Abuja and the universities, many of which have research capabilities. Although, many of them are working in these areas, but don’t have funding to complete the works. We are going to work with Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (PMGMAN) to incentivise these research centres and seek for basic funding that would help them do specific research. We are going to set targets to say for example between now and 2021 we will no longer import starch. We will also do the kind of investments that would make that happen. We will also seek funders and investors to make sure we achieve that. These are the kind of things I want to do. If it’s one, two or three items that we are able to resolve, then after my term, somebody else will take it to the next level. You never win a game until you have started. You never solve a problem until you begin to confront it, making plans, identifying the problems.