…alleges tampering of card readers by APC  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has justified its rejection of results of the Saturday’s presidential election. The opposition party alleged that the smart card readers used to accredit data obtained from the election has been tampered with. Consequently, the party called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to stop forthwith, further collation of the results of the election. Deputy Director General (Admin) of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organization, Tanimu Turaki (SAN), at a press conference yesterday, said the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, has already communicated the position to the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu.  Turaki stated that the PDP’s demand was predicated on available evidence to the effect that data from the card readers are being reconfigured to suit the manipulations, rigging and over-voting allegedly carried out during the election in some states by the All Progressives Congress (APC). He further disclosed that the party is demanding outright cancellation of presidential election results in Yobe, Zamfara, Nasarawa and Borno states as submitted by INEC presiding officers. “In Yobe, the total number of votes submitted as cast was more than the number of accredited voters. Whereas the number of accredited voters was 601,056, the total votes cast was 775, 449.  “This is a clear case of over-voting which, by the provisions of the Electoral Act, renders the election null and void. In such instance, the law provides for another election on a day to be fixed by INEC,” Turaki stated. According to him, voting did not take place in Zamfara State, “and there was no single result sheet in any polling unit in the entire state.” He said there was an arrest in Shinkafi Local Government of the state where an APC member was caught thumb-printing ballot papers inside his house. “Results from the presiding officer from Zamfara were concocted and allocated according to the wishes of the leadership of the APC and INEC,” Turaki stated.  He also said there was no election in Borno State “but a figure writing exercise and allocation of results according to the whims and caprices of the APC leaders. “We also demand the outright deletion of the results from Borno from INEC records and a conduct of free, fair and credible presidential election in Borno State.” He demanded the immediate restoration of “over 157,000 lawful and valid votes which were unlawfully and arbitrarily cancelled by INEC” to the PDP, as well as an immediate restoration of over 79,000 valid votes to the party, which he claimed, were unlawfully cancelled by INEC in Kogi State.  “In the FCT, the PDP demands the restoration of 27,000 valid votes unlawfully and arbitrarily cancelled by INEC and a declaration of the authentic result, inclusive of our restored 27,000 votes. “In Plateau, the PDP demands the immediate restoration of our over 30,000 lawful and valid votes, which were unlawfully cancelled, particularly in Jos North and the declaration of the genuine results as delivered at the polling units inclusive of our 30,000 restored votes,” he added.  Turaki called on Nigerians to disregard the results until INEC provides the data from the smart card reader accreditation at the polling units, conducts fresh election in Borno, Yobe and Zamfara states as well as restore PDP’s votes in Plateau, FCT, Kogi and Nasarawa states. He stated that from the actual votes delivered at the polling units, the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, won the presidential election. PDP had, in an earlier press conference on Monday, rejected the results of the presidential election. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed a lack of confidence in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct free and fair elections, ONYEKACHI EZE reports   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is going into this weekend's presidential election with a mindset; that the poll would be rigged in… In "Politics" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to make public its findings on underage voters in various states, particularly Kano and Katsina. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, accused INEC of working for the ruling All Progressives… In "National news" The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has rejected any plan by the Independent National Electoral Committee (INEC) to use incident forms in the February 16 presidential election. In a statement issued by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, the former vice president said the use… In "News"