History beckons on Nigeria today as Nigerians go to the polls to elect a new President, who will in the next four years steer the ship of the nation. Interestingly, Nigerians plied this same route four years ago under the leadership of the then President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, who eventually lost the election to the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015. Aside from the 73 political parties who are contesting the election, Buhari, the standard bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are regarded as the two leading contenders for the coveted seat. While this constitutional process may not be strange to many Nigerians, especially in electing leaders of their choice, investigations revealed that the success or otherwise of the election will largely be dependent upon a number of factors. Chiefly among the factors include the role the electoral umpire will play in the whole exercise. Unlike most past elections, the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, has not only restated the commission’s resolve towards conducting a free, fair and credible polls, but has also challenged bookmakers to watch-out the outcome of the election. Speaking at a forum, where a representative of the United States Government’s embassy in Nigeria, Mr. David Young, alongside other stakeholder met at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja, Yakubu promised that INEC would not disappoint the international community and the Nigerian people. He said: “2019 (polls) will be credible, we will zealously guard the process…we have concluded and published the guideline, we have finalised the manual for the election to be used for training staff for the election. We are recruiting as hoc staff and will soon start training them. We are aware the election is going to be an intense media event.” Incidentally, Yakubu’s numerous assurances, even though it might sound laudable, appears to have raised a lot of misconceptions, which most Nigerians expect the electoral umpire to have addressed before today. To consolidate on its 2015 achievements, INEC is expected to convince Nigerians that it is not dancing to the tune of the Federal Government. It is doubtful if it has not done this. Among others, the choice on January 3 of an INEC National Commissioner, Mrs. Amina Zakari, as chairman of the ad hoc committee on National Collation Centre, has remained a burden to the commission. Zakari has been said to be related to Buhari “through an inter-marriage in their extended families.” The commission is also battling with an allegation by the Coalition of United Political Party that it doctored regulations and guidelines for the elections. CUPP went to court over the matter to seek redress on about 10 grey areas including the insistence by INEC on simultaneous voting and accreditation. While Nigerians believe that INEC’s readiness preparatory to today’s election, the international community has also raised concerns over the capability or otherwise of the electoral umpire to conduct credible polls. In the words of Young, “One of the concerns is about the neutrality of the security services. For us, it is very important that the security services provide for the election security, the safety of the process of the election in a way that doesn’t interfere with people getting to the polls, civil society monitors, election observers who have access to observe the process freely.” Young recalled that the U.S. government had assured INEC of its support when its envoys visited INEC alongside those diplomats from the European Union (EU), the French and Germany embassies in Nigeria. “We support INEC and the work they are doing. We look forward to providing more support,” he said. He also said the he hoped the new Acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, would cooperate and give the necessary support. In the same vein, the EU Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Ketil Karlsen, said the EU was meeting with INEC to get updates on the preparations towards the election. He said: “Our only real mission here is for Nigeria to succeed in having fee, fair, transparent and credible elections. We want to be briefed by you on the preparation for the election. We already have long term observers.” While noting that the 2015 election sent a powerful message that the outcome of a democratic election could be roundly accepted, he said the envoys would like to see that again in 2019. Stressing that it was not supporting any candidate, party or ideology, the EU diplomat said whoever emerges from the election, would become a partner of their countries. The British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, said their role in supporting INEC as they had done over the years, was to ensure it to deliver credible election in the eyes of the people of Nigeria. Beyond INEC’s insistence on credible polls, President Buhari has also assured Nigerians that he is all out for free, fair and credible elections. Speaking at a meeting with traditional rulers at the secretariat complexes of the Councils of Traditional Rulers of Bayelsa and Rivers states, the President said: “I assure you that I’m all out for free, fair and credible elections. The INEC knows my stand on this. “Nigerians are assured of free and fair elections. Under this leadership, nobody will be allowed to intimidate other citizens. Nobody will be allowed to snatch ballot boxes and run with them. I will make sure that the votes count.” While the President’s stance on credible polls must be commended, others, especially leaders of opposition parties believe INEC needs to go the extra mile if their sincerity to the conduct of the polls must be accepted. One of such leaders is the National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus, who challenged INEC on what to do before the elections. Secondus called on INEC to make public the number of Permanent Voters Card (PVCs), collected from each state, across the federation. In a tweet, he said: “At this critical time in the history of our beloved nation, I call on @inecnigeria to publicly announce the number of PVCs collected with respect to their states. “This is a challenge for INEC to prove that they are indeed ready for a free, fair and transparent election.” In the long run, Yakubu’s neutrality will be accessed based on the outcome of the polls. The 2019 general elections provide yet another opportunity for Nigerians to witness what we regard to as 'incumbency factor.' It is an election in which one of the competitors is the occupant of the position contested for, as against scenarios where an incumbent is not involved, known as an “open… In "Politics" It is just a few days to the general elections and political parties and their candidates are gradually winding down their campaigns. The heat and dust raised by political actors at the campaign rallies may not fully settle before Nigerians will file out to play their own role in this… In "Politics" About four years ago, in the run-up to the 2015 general elections, one of the main issues of discuss between now President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the campaign war was the issue of certificates of Buhari. While… In "Editorial"