 The ICC Cricket World Cup Trophy otherwise known as #CWCTrophyTour driven by Nissan last week concluded a two-day tour of Abuja and Lagos. The trophy which arrived in Nigeria on 11th through 13th February 2019 was in furtherance of an extensive expedition around the globe, which began Monday, August 27, 2018 at the International Cricket Council Headquarters in Dubai. Minister of Youth, Sports and Development Solomon Dalung received the trophy on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari at a formal presentation to the diplomatic community and cricket enthusiasts at the Presidential Villa Abuja. Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who received the trophy at the State House Alausa-Ikeja Lagos before it was displayed at an enlivening scenery at the Cricket Oval of the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) Lagos, where fans took their turns to have their photographs taken against the backdrop of the coveted trophy and also had a feel of what it is like to be at the Cricket World Cup in a unique in-stadia experience. Nissan recently signed an eight-year deal with the ICC, running through 2023 as exclusive sponsor of the game, which also includes the ICC Champions Trophy and ICC World Twenty-20 as well as the Under 19 and Women’s Cricket and qualifying events. President Nigeria Cricket Federation Professor Yahaya Ukwenya, who spoke at the presentation of the trophy in Abuja, said: the #CWCTrophyTour driven by Nissan was a conscious plan to raise the profile of the game by pushing its fan base well beyond a billion supporters it already has around the world.
“It is a rare opportunity to get up close to the trophy and engage both new and existing fans while canvassing support for the game’s evolution in Nigeria,” Mr. Ukwenya remarked. He thanked Stallion NMN, the local Nissan Sales and Marketing Company for partnering with the Nigeria Cricket Federation “on this ambitious journey that will build excitement around the country as we head towards the Cricket World Cup in England and Wales.” The Nigeria Cricket Federation also received a unit each of select Nissan vehicles including the premium Patrol SUV, NV350 bus and B-Segment SUV Kicks to help the #CWCTrophyTour visit iconic and unusual Nigerian locations. Handing over the keys to the Chairman Local Organising Committee Kofi Sagoe, Stallion NMN Head of Sales and Marketing Amit Sharma said: “The Nissan slogan ‘Innovation that Excites’ is what drives everything we do at Nissan, and we are excited to be part of the global cricketing family and to support the ICC Cricket World Cup Trophy.”  Also adding that it was a rare opportunity to drive the #CWCTrophyTour, Mr. Sharma said: “Our vehicles will assure more people the joy and driving pleasure of owning a Nissan vehicle.” He said fans will be able to watch the cup’s journey in real time on the Trophy Tour Section of www.icc-cricket.com. The #CWCTrophyTour is travelling not only to countries taking part in the tournament, but going beyond traditional cricket heartlands to connect with fans in a further 11 countries where cricket is growing including Nigeria, Nepal, USA and Germany. From the United Arab Emirates, the trophy has visited Oman, the USA, the West Indies, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, India, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa and Rwanda before arriving Nigeria. The trophy left Nigeria on February 14 for France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany before finally arriving in England and a 100-day domestic Trophy Tour, having crisscrossed five continents, 21 countries and more than 60 cities around the world.