Setting a new tempo for brand expression, Mastercard debuts its sonic brand identity, a comprehensive sound architecture that signifies the latest advancement for the brand. Wherever consumers engage with Mastercard across the globe – be it physical, digital or voice environments – the distinct and memorable Mastercard melody will provide simple, seamless familiarity. The news comes on the heels of the company’s recent transition to a symbol brand and is part of its continued brand transformation. Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Mastercard, Mr. Raja Rajamannar, said: “Sound adds a powerful new dimension to our brand identity and a critical component to how people recognise Mastercard today and in the future. “We set out an ambitious goal to produce the Mastercard melody in a way that’s distinct and authentic, yet adaptable globally and across genres. It is important that our sonic brand not only reinforces our presence, but also resonates seamlessly around the world.” To ensure the Mastercard melody would resonate with people the world over, Mastercard tapped musicians, artists and agencies from across the globe, including musical innovator Mike Shinoda of Linkin Park. Alpha Mead Group has announced the launch of its renewed brand, symbolized by the introduction of a harmonised brand identity for all the businesses in the group. A statement by Group Managing Director of the company, Engr. Femi Akintunde, said that the harmonisation and launch of a new corporate brand… In "Business" New Chinese mobile manufacturer, Tambo, has officially launched its brand in Nigeria, Africa’s largest mobile market. The launch according to a statement, followed a successful feat in India earlier in April. The company said it chose Nigeria as the first country to launch in Africa because of its peculiar status… In "Business" Mastercard recently welcomed 10 startups to its Start Path programme at the Mastercard ‘Connecting Tomorrow’ Forum in Barcelona, Spain, an event, which it said, is part of its efforts to drive the startup ecosystem. In a statement, the firm said: “Mastercard Start Path is the company’s global initiative to provide… In "Business"