… soldier, two civilians killed  Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State yesterday escaped death by a whisker as members of the dreaded group, Boko Haram, attacked his campaign train.
However, the attackers killed three people in the convoy. The attack occurred on Maiduguri-Gamboru Road. The governor was in the area to campaign ahead of the Saturday’s elections. A security source said the Boko Haram members allowed almost all the vehicles in the convoy to pass before swooping on the vehicle at the rear and slaughtered three persons. “After swooping on the vehicle, the insurgents slaughtered three persons, while many others were injured. The insurgents avoided using guns in order not to attract the attention of the security operatives in the convoy,” the source said. The incident occurred when the governor was on a campaign visit to Mafa, Dikwa, Ngala and Kalabslge local government areas. Shettima, who left Maiduguri on Tuesday, was said to have spent the night in Gamboru, where he also crossed over to Cameroon to see the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who were displaced by Boko Haram in Rann, the headquarters of Kala Balge. The IDPs were taking refuge in Cameroon.
Sources said the victims of the attack were a soldier and two civilians. One of the sources said Shettima escaped unhurt because the incident occurred at the tail end of the long convoy.
The governor and others were said to have driven past before the attack. “It is very unfortunate that the Boko Haram members took advantage of the long convoy and attacked at the end of the convoy. By the time the incident occurred, the governor had already passed,” another source said. “Three people were killed, one soldier and two other civilians. We are just returning into Maiduguri now,” the source added. Another security source said the other two victims were members of the Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF).  “The governor and other top politicians escaped unhurt. But many other persons were injured,” it added. The Special Adviser to the governor on Media and Strategy, Malam Isa Gusau, could not be reached for comment at press time.