… VP holds door-to-door campaign in Somolu, Lagos Mainland   Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s mother, Mrs. Olubisi Osinbajo, yesterday, revealed that her obedience to God’s instruction to sing praises for several hours last Thursday saved her son from Saturday’s helicopter crash in Kogi State.
Speaking to journalists, when she received her son at her Somolu residence in Lagos during the vice president’s door-to-door campaign in the area, an elated Mrs. Osinbajo, said she is satisfied with the performance of the Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration.
Mrs. Osinbajo, who quickly embraced her son passionately and sang several songs immediately she sighted him, said: “I am overwhelmed by this visit and I must thank God for everything that He is doing in my life.
“Do you know that on Thursday (January 31), I was busy thanking God and praising Him? I didn’t know what was going to happen on Saturday (the day Osinbajo’s helicopter crash-landeed in Kogi).
“I have been praising God and I told my people I wanted to praise God on that Thursday till evening not knowing that something would happen on Saturday to him (his son). That gift was given to me by Jesus Christ that I should be praising him and that I will never be sorrowful. That was what God told me.”
Speaking on the performance of the incumbent administration, Mrs. Osinbajo said: “They have tried. If anybody says they have not done anything, then you can say that man or woman is not in this world; such is in another world because they have tried.
“What they (Buhari/Osinbajo) did in three years, some people couldn’t do it for 16 years. We are praising God and we shall praise God after the elections.”
Meanwhile, Vice President Osinbajo, who was accompanied by Third Republic member of the Senate and APC chieftain, Senator Anthony Adefuye; Senior Adviser to President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu; APC House of Representatives candidate for Somolu Federal Constituency, Barr. Ademorin Kuye and other party chieftains on the door-to-door campaign trekked some metres and associated with the crowd in all the places he visited to seek their support for APC in the forthcoming elections.
Osinbajo, who also visited some traditional rulers as well as several families during, urged the electorate to vote for President Buhari and other APC candidates in the February 16 and March 2 elections.