The Chairman Christian Association of Nigeria CAN Jos North chapter of Plateau state Rev. Canon Nenman Isa Gowon has raise alarm over the delayed in announcing the result of the national assembly election for Plateau north senatorial zone and Jos North/Basa federal house of representative. Gowon while addressing newsmen in Jos said their concern is based on the fact that the delayed announcement of the result send a signal of the possibility of tampering with it while urging the independent national electoral commission INEC to as a matter of urgency announced the result unaltered. The clergy pointed out that the delay has started generating anxiety in the heart of the peace-loving people of Plateau state. Similarly, Mohammed Bashiru Mohammed and Engr. Ahmed Hassan all of concern citizen of Nigeria Plateau state chapter lamented that the election was conducted peaceful and wondering why INEC has not announced the winner four days after the election was conducted. According to the duo in a statement said the people are interested in knowing who win the election stressing that anybody who feel aggrieved should go to court of competent jurisdiction to seek for redress. “We learn that they is the issue of over voting in some places Ilike Tudun Wada and Kabong INEC should counsel the result from these areas and announced the result to dose the tension that the delayed in announcing the result has been generating in the area.”  We will accept nothing less than justice, PDP  The Peoples Democratic Party PDP in Plateau State has accused INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in the State Mallam Husseini Halilu Pai for compromising his position as an umpire. Chairman of the Party in the state Hon. Damishi Sango during a Press Conference held at the Party Secretariat together with stakeholders accused Pai of setting the whole of Plateau on tension which is a recipe for monumental crisis Sango said the Northern Zone of the party have received reports from INEC officers on ground and their agents that PDP had roundly won the election. He said Plateau people will accept nothing less than justice. “But very surprisingly, INEC summoned the Returning Officers under heavy military intimidation and ordered them to announce the result of the election in favour of APC. “Plateau people clearly spoke their minds by vesting their trust in PDP through overwhelmingly voting for the party, Their votes gave PDP unassailable victory across the state. We salute our supporters for their commitment and resilience in seeking to chart a new course for a united, secure and prosperous Plateau. “However, we are saddened to note that four days after the conduct of the elections, INEC is yet to turn in the final results and declare the winners. According to Sango said the PDP and its stakeholders have been working tirelessly to calm frayed nerves in the State. “We are therefore alerting the nation and the world to hold the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Alhaji Husseini Halilu Pai responsible for any breakdown of law and order. The party acknowledged that the elections were relatively peaceful on the 23rd February 2019 and there was also an enthusiastic turn out of the people to vote despite the earlier inexcusable postponement by INEC which had brought untold anguish and disappointment on the electorate. He disclosed that there was clear pressure on the Returning Officer to declare the result in favour of APC “INEC picked Tudun Wada-Kabong ward, a stronghold of the PDP in Jos North LGA and has withheld the results of all the 65 units with a total voter population of about 92 thousand people The PDP accused the commission of instructed the Returning Officers not to announce the results. “It is therefore evident that the wholesome cancellation of units across the state was deliberately targeted at disenfranchising the people and weakening PDP bases. The party, however, appeal to REC to douse the rising tension by immediately releasing the results, saying the know where the pressure is coming. “Governor Lalong wants a second tenure at the expense of the blood and peace of Plateau. “The governor has been blackmailed by some elements in the state who want him to give them certain elective positions in exchange for their support for his re-election.