The Olowu of Owu- Kuta, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama has urged the federal government and the military authorities to prioritise welfare of soldiers for them to be motivated in the fight against insurgents and banditry across the country.  Speaking yesterday in Lagos at a parley with newsmen, Oba Makama commended professionalism of Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai despite the daunting task to contain the Boko Haram and other banditries in the country. He said: “I invited you to share my thoughts about our country and the Armed Forces. Some of you are familiar with my intervention on the need to support our Armed Forces in order to boost their morale for optimum performance.  “In my previous media interactions, I called for support for the Nigerian Armed Forces from both local and International Community since the whole world is a global village in order to defeat the Boko Haram insurgent and other groups in the country threatening our internal cohesion.  “On the strength of this, I am appealing to our political class that as we go into the rescheduled elections to leave the armed forces out of their build-up to the elections.  Without any fear of contradiction, the armed forces is not only the symbol of our national unity and cohesion, it is also the defenders of our territorial integrity as its personnel sacrifice their comfort for our peace. “The Armed Forces is an institution above ethnopolitical and religious ills, the destructive factors which sets a nation back, and set the people up for crisis.  Therefore, I cannot but award a credit mark to our armed forces on their journey so far in taming the hydra-headed monster known as Boko Haram terrorists.  “While politicians think about next election, monarchs think about the security and safe keeping of communities and country at large. I say with every sense of responsibility that contemporary governance has informally imposed some social-political duties on us as Royal Father such that we can no longer fold our arms and watch things go awry. “I also want to urge all the presidential candidates to keep to the peace accord they subscribe to recently, bearing in mind that we must have country first before any other thing.  The rescheduled election slated for February 23 and March 9, 2019 should be approached with open mind.