The European Union Election Observation Mission (EU EOM) has told Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State that its observers were invited for the February 16 and March 2 polls by the Federal Government. The EU EOM, which made its position known in a statement in Abuja, said its observers are always impartial and do not interfere in the electoral process. El-Rufai had said that foreign powers planning to interfere in next week’s elections will “leave Nigeria in body bags.”  The governor spoke in a live interview on NTA’s Tuesday Night Live while responding to questions on the comments made by the United States, European Union and the United Kingdom on the credibility of the election following President Muhammadu Buhari’s controversial suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen. The Kaduna governor, who is a staunch supporter of Buhari, stated that, “Those that are calling for anyone to come and intervene in Nigeria, we are waiting for the person that would come and intervene, they would go back in body bags.”  However the EU, in a statement, stated that its election observation missions are impartial and do not interfere in the electoral process. It said: “We are aware of the comments by the Governor of Kaduna about noninterference by foreigners during a talk show on the elections Tuesday, 5 February. “The EU only deploys an election observation mission when it is invited to do so by the authorities of a country.  The EU has been invited to observe all of the general elections in Nigeria since 1999. Thus this is the sixth time the EU is observing elections in Nigeria. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) invited the EU to deploy an observation mission for the 2019 general elections. “EU election observation missions give commentary and analysis and make recommendations about the electoral process. EU election observation missions are impartial, do not interfere in the electoral process, and operate according to a strict code of conduct.”  Meanwhile, el-Rufai has stated that contrary to insinuations that he was calling for violence, he spoke like a patriot in defence of the sovereignty of Nigeria. El-Rufai said anybody with a “modest familiarity with the English language and unimpaired comprehension” can adequately understand his comments.  The governor spoke against the criticism trailing his alleged threat to foreigners planning to interfere in the forthcoming elections in the country. In a statement by his spokesman, Samuel Aruwan, entitled “El-Rufai: Let the false outrage stop”, the governor said: “When Nasir el-Rufai appeared on NTA’s Tuesday Night Live, he made comments every patriot can understand. He stood up for Nigeria’s dignity in the wake of those who would traduce their country and reduce it to the status of a colony in their vain quest for power. “The video of his comments is in circulation. Any fair-minded person with modest familiarity with the English language and unimpaired comprehension can understand it. It does not contain any call for violence. It is a powerful defence of sovereignty. “Are some sections of our political class implying that they will acquiesce in or collaborate with foreign intervention in our country?”  According to him, “A notorious trait of the characters that constitute the opposition in Nigeria is the manufacture of outrage on flimsy grounds. “However, contriving anger on false premises and summoning a din of feverish commentary will not alter the facts. Election season is  regarded as silly season in some quarters, but it is a very serious moment.”  The governor stated that what he said on non-foreign interference in Nigeria’s elections is expected from every patriot. His words: “Affirming that a country will defend itself against needless intervention is the kind of statement you expect to hear from a patriot. It is not a call for violence. Warning about the consequences of meddling in another country’s affairs is legitimate.  “Non-interference in the affairs of other countries is a basic principle of international law. Threatening to intervene in another country implies the use of force.  Those who are basing their electoral calculations on foreign intervention need to be discouraged. Only the lawful votes of the Nigerian people should make or unmake governments. “El-Rufai has issued a powerful call for vigilance and a clear notice that other countries should not mistake the supine posture of the opposition for national weakness. “He has stood firmly against those who have been trying to divide Nigerians on ethnic and religious lines. He is resolutely opposed to violence, and firmly committed to peace and harmony.” The Kaduna governor, who is a staunch supporter of Buhari, stated that, “Those that are calling for anyone to come and intervene in Nigeria, we are waiting for the person that would come and intervene, they would go back in body bags.” While stating that Nigeria played a role in the elections in Liberia and Sierra Leone many years ago, but added that it was done in collaboration with the international community and for the enthronement of democracy.  “Nobody will come to Nigeria and tell us how to run our country. We have got our independence and we are trying to run our country as decently as possible and we know the history of those countries that are trying to teach us. “We know their history, we also know their own stages of development and they went through these challenges. So, please, let us work together, let us challenge one another, but don’t lecture us.”  The governor said the foreign countries criticising Nigeria did not become stable democracies overnight, but were given the opportunity to grow at their own pace without any interference. The US and the UK had, a few weeks ago, threatened to place a visa ban on any Nigerian politician who rigs elections or promotes violence.