Born on November 25, 1946 to a Fulani trader and farmer, Garba Abubakar and Aisha Kande, in Jada village of Adamawa State, the former vice president worked his way to greatness even though he could not start school, when he ought to because his father was opposed to western education. After his primary school, he was admitted into Adamawa Provincial Secondary School, Yola, in 1960. He completed his secondary school education in 1965 after he made Grade Three in the West African School Certificate examination. As a child, Atiku did things considered by most people to be beyond his age such as building a house for his mother in Ganye, Adamawa State, when he was barely 15 in 1961. He was able to build the house with savings from a vacation job he did at Ganye Division, while in secondary school. He earned the princely sum of three pounds per month as a “Bring Up” clerk to Mallam Adamu Ciroma, then a District Officer, who would later become a key player in Nigeria as a newspaper editor, governor of the Central Bank, minister of and presidential candidate. After his secondary education, Atiku proceeded to Nigerian Police College, Kaduna. He left the college for a work as Tax Officer in the Northern Region Ministry of Finance. He later got admission to study at the School of Hygiene Kano in 1966, from which he graduated with a diploma in 1967. In that same year, Atiku was admitted for a Law Diploma at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, on a scholarship. He graduated in 1969 and got employed in the Nigerian Custom Service that same year. He worked with the Customs Service for 20 years, rising to Deputy Director, as the second highest position in the Service was then known. He retired in April 1989 at the age of 43 and took up full-time business and politics. Besides real estate, which he ventured into in 1974, when as a young Customs of-ficer, he got a federal staff housing loan amounting to N31,000, the former vice president also went into farming. He started the Gesse Derdirabe Farm on 2,500 hectares of land off Yola-Numan road with a bank loan. He grew maize and cotton, becoming the largest maize farmer in the old Gongola State. Atiku also went into oil servicing business. With foreign partners, he started a small oil logistics company from a container office at Apapa called the Nigeria Container Services (NICOTES). The company was later renamed Integrated Logistics Services (INTELS). In his speeches and commentaries, Atiku has always been an advocate of an efficient educational system. He walked his talk by establishing the American University of Nigeria (AUN) in Yola. It is the first American-style university to be established in Sub-Saharan Africa. Atiku’s philanthropy also stands him out among his contemporaries. In 1982, he was awarded the chieftaincy of the Turaki of Adamawa. In June 2017, he was conferred the title of Waziri of Adamawa, while his previous title of Turaki was transferred to his son, Aliyu.Campaigns for the presidential election commenced on November 18 and are expected to end on February 14, but out of the 73 candidates in the race, just a handful of the candidates have so far taken their campaigns to the various parts of the country. Among those whose campaigns have been visible are Buhari and Atiku. For Buhari, his campaign is anchored on the Next Level manifesto, which has five key promises. They are jobs, infrastructure, business and entrepreneurship development, human capital enhancement services and political inclusion. Though many are still the fulfillment or otherwise of his 2015 campaign promises hinged on security, anti-corruption war and economy, Buhari said his efforts have laid a foundation that has taken the country out of a depth of decay and that if re-elected, would serve as a basis for a stronger country. The manifesto reads in part: “We have worked hard to fulfill our promises and while the road may have been difficult, over the last three and a half years, we have laid the foundation for a strong, stable and prosperous country for the majority of our people. “Foundational work is not often visible, neither is it glamorous, but it is vital to achieving the kind of country we desire. Judging by the prior depth of decay, deterioration and disrepair that Nigeria had sunken into, we are certain that these past few years have put us in good stead to trudge on the Next Level of building an even stronger nation for our people.” Some of the highlights include engagement of one million N-Power graduates, skill up 10 million Nigerians under a voucher system in partnership with the private sector, Anchor Borrowers Scheme to support input and jobs to 1m farmers, livestock transformation plan to create 1.5 million jobs and agriculture mechanization policy to create 5m jobs. Others are provision of $500 million innovation fund to tech and creative sector to create 500,000 jobs, to train 200,000 youth for outsourcing market in technology, services and entertainment, soft loans of up to N1 million to small traders, artisans and commercial drivers. Buhari also in the document explained that Next Level will take the current number of 2.3 million traders, farmers, and artisans under Trader Moni, Market Moni and Farmer Moni schemes to 10 million Nigerians under the People Moni Scheme. In power generation, he pledged “a minimum of 1,000mw new generation incremental power capacity per annum on the grid to bring a total of a minimum of 11,000mw and distribution to get to 7,000mw under distribution expansion programme.” On security, the President indicated plans to “decentralize funding of police operations and foster true community policing by implementing direct transfer of funding to Police Divisions. Execute the second phase of the Farmer-Herder and National Livestock Policy to end the decades-long conflict between farmers and herders.” Buhari further promised a more inclusive government with ‘35 percent in female appointments, more youth appointment for boards, special mentoring programmes in governance with young graduates working with ministers and other senior government appointees, while on education, there is a plan to remodel and equip 10,000 schools per year. For Atiku, whose manifesto was termed “Vision to get Nigeria working again,” there are 45 promises, which he hopes to bring to fruition if elected. The PDP candidate has promised to attain single-digit unemployment rate by 2024 through the creation of three million jobs annually; usher in what he said would be the lowest tax rate in Africa, and plans for the generation of 20,000mw of power by 2024. He also promised to increase the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) through a ‘‘broad based dynamic and competitive economy with a GDP of US$900 billion by 2025; promotion of a private sector-driven competitive and open economy supported by efficiently run public institutions; promotion of economic diversification and linkages between agriculture, industry and micro and small enterprises all three of which have great prospects for employment generation and poverty reduction; a supportive enabling business environment; a stable macroeconomic environment and increasing the flow of direct foreign Investment (FDI) into the non-oil sector On manufacturing, he promised a sustained increase in manufacturing output. “By 2025, the manufacturing sector’s output shall be expanded from nine percent to 30 per cent of GDP. Achieve a diversified production structure with more processing of domestic raw materials, a select list of light, intermediate and heavy goods industries and a substantial complement of manufactured exports,” he said. On the oil and gas sector, he said by 2025, Nigeria shall produce a minimum of five million barrels of oil per day. He also promised improve domestic supply of refined petroleum products through government’s incentive to investors, who are willing to cite modular refineries in the North to source crude from neighbouring Niger and Chad via pipeline to be constructed under Public Private Partnership. On jobs, Atiku promised creation of up to three million selfand wage-paying employment opportunities in the private sector annually, across all the economic sectors, including agriculture, manufacturing, ICT, sports and entertainment. He, particularly vowed to lift at least 50 million people out of extreme poverty by 2025. On power infrastructure, he pledged to ensure effective regulatory environment to deliver contract-based electricity market compliant with market rules; intensify rural electrification projects to ensure electricity access to over 80 million Nigerians currently without access to grid electricity and to create an environment that will enable distribution companies recover full costs for power supplied to their consumers with firm commitment to a metering program for all customers. Atiku also has it in his plan to relocate the Niger Delta Ministry from Abuja to the region to enable it become closer to the stakeholders and beneficiaries of the initiatives, while on restructuring, he said: “Local Governments shall remain as independent tier of government.” ...Buhari, Saraki, Atiku mourn   Former civilian governor of Adamawa State, Alhaji Saleh Michika, who ruled the state between January 2, 1992 and November 17, 1993, on the platform of the National Republican Convention (NRC) is dead. He died yesterday at the age of 77. Alhaji Michika was born in… In "News" Emmanuel Masha   Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has stressed the need for the amendment of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) Act in a bid to accommodate the funding of senior secondary education across the country. The governor said that such step would cater for the infrastructural needs of… In "News" …Bindo meets Buhari, vows to remain in APC Adamawa State governor, Senator Jibrilla Bindo, has vowed that he will not toe the footsteps of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar in dumping the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Bindo stated this yesterday while speaking to… In "News"