Barely nine days to the February 16 presidential election, result of an opinion conducted by Williams and Associates, a United States-based opinion research firm, indicate that the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, stands a better chance of winning the election.  Atiku, according to the poll, is expected to defeat the incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and over 70 other candidates in the race. The former vice president had 45 per cent of the 1,550 respondents interviewed in the course of the poll, saying they will vote for him as against Buhari’s 33 per cent.  The presidential candidates of Young Progressives Party (YPP), Prof. Kingsley Moghalu had nine per cent; Omoyele Sowere of Africa Action Congress (AAC) had eight per cent, while Donald Duke of Social Democratic Party (SDP) had six per cent. The 36-page report of the poll obtained by New Telegraph, yesterday, showed that Atiku was chosen ahead of Buhari by 47 per cent of respondents in North-Central, 58 per cent in North-East, 35 per cent in North-West, 50 per cent in South-East, 42 per cent in South-South and 32 per cent in South- West. Buhari had 29 per cent in North Central, 22 per cent in North-East, 45 per cent in North-West, 26 per cent in South-East, 35 per cent in South-South and 43 per cent in South-West.  The report further showed that 54 per cent of the respondents believed that the former vice president would win the election regardless of who they vote for, while 38 per cent believe that Buhari will win. Seventy-three candidates are contesting the presidential election, according to a list published by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While one of them, Mrs. Oby Ezekwesili, of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), recently announced her withdrawal, the contest has been narrowed to a two-horse race between Buhari and Atiku.  However, the report further revealed that 42 per cent of the respondents said they would vote for the PDP in the presidential election, while 32 per cent said they would vote for the ruling APC.  This is 10 points vote differential to the PDP candidate over his APC counterpart. Fifteen per cent of the respondents said they would vote for other candidates, whereas 11 per cent said they would not vote for any of the candidates.  According to the report, Buhari presently has 36 per cent yes votes as against 64 per cent no votes ahead of the election. This is 12 points lower than what former President Goodluck Jonathan had prior to his defeat in the 2015 elections. Jonathan had 44 yes votes and 52 no votes, while four per cent said they were indifferent then. A breakdown of the yes and no votes for the President’s re-election, according to the six geo-political zones, showed that Buhari had 29 yes and 76 no votes in the North Central, 48 yes and 55 no votes in North-East, 41 yes and 59 no votes in North-West, 29 yes and 71 no votes in South-East, 36 yes and 64 no votes in South-South, and 30 yes and 70 no votes in South-West.  Among issues on which questions were posed to the respondents on who they will vote for during the presidential election include unemployment, poverty, corruption, insecurity, inflation, good governance, lack of access to quality education, herdsmen crisis, crime and insurgency by Boko Haram. Interestingly, 19 per cent of the respondents believe that Buhari is corrupt, compared to 17 per cent against Atiku.  The former vice president was rated higher than Buhari in terms of trust, making Nigeria safe, uniting Nigerians, defence of democracy and compliance to rule of law and capacity for job creation. Particularly asked whether Buhari has done well to deserve re-election and if the country is moving in the right or wrong direction under him, responses from respondents in the North-Central indicate that 44 per cent believe the right direction, 46 per cent wrong direction and 10 per cent neither of the two directions. For the North-East, it is 19 per cent right, 65 per cent wrong and 16 per cent neither; North-West – 27 per cent right, 57 wrong and 16 per cent neither; South-East – 12 per cent right, 76 per cent wrong and 12 per cent neither; South-South – 17 right, 70 per cent and 13 per cent neither, while for South- West, it is 42 per cent right, 48 per cent wrong and 10 per cent neither.  The report added that 49 respondents said they would vote for the Atiku/ Peter Obi ticket, while 37 per cent said they would vote for the Buhari/Yemi Osinbajo ticket. Data for the poll, according to the report, was collated by an international survey research firm operating in Nigeria under the supervision of Williams Associates of Salem, Massachusetts, United States. It further stated that interviews were conducted using in-person and face-to-face methodology by trained professional interviewers using a multi-stage stratification proportionate to population sample distribution, with random selection of households and respondents, using the Kish method. Stratification was based on geographic and demographic population distribution.  “One thousand five hundred interviews were conducted with those who have registered for a Permanent Voters’ Card (PVCs), yielding an overall margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 per cent at midrange of 95 per cent confidence level. The interviews were conducted in English and local dialects as appropriate,” the report stated. It added that the “survey interview was conducted between January 11 and 16, prior to two news worthy events – Atiku’s visit to the United States on January 17, and Buhari’s suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) on January 27.”