 Over N2.1 trillion oil royalties accruable to Nigeria are trapped in the coffers of oil blocs’ licensees including some international oil companies (IOCs), New Telegraph has learnt. This was contained in a correspondence between the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and the Department of Petroluem Resources (DPR) sighted by this newspaper indicated that the trapped royalties were at last quarter of 2018. Stating that government had recouped N1.2 trillion out of the trapped fund, DPR noted that this was achieved through the adoption of a new debt recovery model. Detailing the achievement of the model, the oil industry regulator added that it had included payment of royalty arrears as a part of conditions before oil licenses could secure renewal for their assets in the on-going Oil Mining Lease (OML) renewal process. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, also confirmed to this newspaper that a whopping N1.2 trillion was generated through the aggressive oil royalty recovery, while N540 billion ($1.5 billion) was also raked in from application for early renewal of expired oil leases. Though he declined to comment on total revenues expected to be generated after the exercise, Kachikwu maintained that revenues accruable to government would increase as the renewal on about 30 different leases progresses into 2019. “We need to tell Nigerians everyday what volume of crude we produce with certainty,” he said. “Here are a few interventions that we have had. The first is National Production Monitoring Scheme (NPMS) – starting with nine fields, but with plans for 17 fields. “The second one is crude chart. With this, we can track any of the crude oil vessels from the exact export terminals where it lifts crude and be able to track it to where it offloads the commodity. “Forensic reviews of the vessels are done through this. And on weekly basis, we can send the analysis to security agencies to ask questions if there is a certain strange behaviour we notice in the vessel.” Besides, he said; “ADS – known as Automotive Downstream System – is an electronic system for licenses in the downstream subsector, while the VMB – Value Monutoring and Benchmarck – is being used to monitor the crude price and crude production cost. From this, we have been able to reduce oor production cost to $23 per barrel and our target is $15 per barrel and below. “$1.5 billion (N549 billion) has been raised, being the highest value raised through early application for oil lease renewals. “A new standard we set was the aggressive oil royalty recovery. We told oil operators that you will not get your renewal unless you pay your royalty in advance. Through this, N1.2 trillion has been raised because we were committed to this.” On reason government embarked on the forensic analysis, the minister said: “If you keep waiting for IOCs – international oil companies – to tell you what they produce, your supervisory role as a government will be performed ineffectively. So, this tracking helps you to perform the supervisory role as a government. “The vessel tracking, no doubt, was consummated to also address crude theft. And the third reason for the forensic analysis is being able to address the disparity between the actual production figures and the crude lifting figures. Director, DPR, Mr. Mordecai Ladan, noted that the feats were achieved by the agency, based on the cooperation by the minister. “The minister has been impressed with our achievements so far. He has agreed to come around to showcase some of the feats,” he said. “He has challenged us and we have equally been challenged to keep in with reforms to move the industry forward.”