Agents of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the National Collation Centre refused to sign the Form EC8E of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) containing the scores of each of the 73 presidential candidates. The party’s agents, Osita Chidoka and Usman Bugaje quietly walked out of the hall immediately Prof. Mahmood Yakubu announced President Muhammadu Buhari as winner of the presidential election. Chidoka had earlier tried to stop the declaration of the result because of alleged infractions. He urged Yakubu not to make returns, arguing that the 5.5 million voters who were disenfranchised either due to malfunctioning of smart card readers or violence is higher than the 3.5 million the APC candidate was leading. He also called for a review of votes cast in Bauchi, Borno, Gombe and Katsina states. “Mr. Chairman, our demand is that you should not go ahead to declare the result. We call for a rerun in these areas,” he demanded. He later told journalists that PDP does not accept the results of the election as representing the valid votes of Nigerians. “We have made three issues; first we require INEC, after all the investments in technology, after spending N27 billion in this year’s budget alone on technology, we expected that INEC, for the purpose of transparency, not just for law, would have projected to us the result of what the card readers that they used displayed about the people that went through card reader verification. That singular act is a dent on the image of the election. “The second one is the issues we raised about the number of registered voters, viz-a-viz the number the chairman now calls collated voters, means that 1.6 million people are missing on the voters register. We think that that issue is substantial enough to require a resolution. “We also believe that the difference between the accredited voters and the total votes cast which came to about 750,000 votes requires an issue to be looked at. “Finally, we believe that the cancellations that took place in the election, impacting 2.7 million requires to be looked into seriously.”