In this down-to-earth chat with Dr. Joy Ezeilo, lawyer, feminist and scholar/activist, she is of the firm belief that a woman should first love herself, take control of her life and not allow anybody deny her opportunities of achieving her full potential as a woman. JULIANA FRANCIS writes   How did you come up with passion on feminine and children?
It has been more than two decades but one of the things that prompted me is when I noticed discrimination against my mother had to go through the widowhood practices, when my father died. I wonder why women are required to do this. In Enugu, where I was born and raised, I observe that women were expected to mourn in a different way from men. It rekindled my interest in studying law and determination to become defenders of women’s right. As a lawyer, I know I could give voice to the voiceless, defend right of others, I could be involve in legal aid and that precisely, I have done all this while. Apart from been in the University, teaching law, I’m also doing the activists part which is also trying to provide legal aid and assistant to women and children and this is what push me into founding WACOL, a specialised stop center that could assist women and girls. But we actually didn’t restrict it to women and girls; we also provide assistance to boy-children who are victims of sexual violence. Do you agree to the notion that religion particularly pastors are partly responsible for domestic violence against women and abusive relationship?
I think we shouldn’t just blame them, sometimes they try to preach the word of God and then it get to a stage-like it is their own vow that they will never want to put asunder what God has joined together, that saying influence them to that extent. So, if you go to pastor, you would never get the pastor saying, ‘leave your husband or leave your wife,’ he would rather like to do a mediating role. He is thinking of how the relationship can last to eternity or the way the God has designed it. But the reality is that, we will not encourage any woman to die in silence neither, even encourage any man to die in silence. Truth is that, we have to speak out against violence. We also mediate in cases to preserve marriage vows; we want to be able to reconcile parties where ever possible so that they can also have a long lasting relationship.
But you can’t put that first, if marriage has broken down retrievably and if parties are or one in so endangered, you better be alive, self-preservation is very important. Our culture also impact, really, women are unwilling to divorce their husbands because of the reaction they get if they are did, so they are just looking for someone who will tell them don’t go and if it comes to my pastor it carries more weight. What about the opinion that religion and culture are not favorably disposed to the girl-child and women? What specifically are NGOs doing in that regard?
What I was saying is that a lot happening in Nigeria is huge and we have a very active society. I don’t know about cash and carry system, maybe that is a new term but I know that they have been writing accusation around civil. They are people who don’t have the same acrostic reasons. But I think the NGO communities are doing fantastic because they are not government and they cannot replace government, they are also not alternative to government but they are providing important services and they filling in necessary vacuum where the government and the system has failed and it has failed in different respect especially social services to the people in protecting the poor and the vulnerable. With regard to that NGO filling an important gap because they work and they are recognize in their different constituency and they provide assistant that reasoning with people and that support is very vital and that to religious and traditional and culture. Yes, we have been engaged, for example, I will tell you when it comes to inheritance, at a stage, we have to do training for clergy men and women on the need to protect this right. There is a stage when you tell a man to do away with bad traditional practices like widowhood. Fortunately, some of the churches have stopped practicing these widowhood practices, some even threatened to dismember any of their members who violate by forcing women to do it. Already, some Pentecostal churches have been very fantastic in enforcing the rules. There are different types of abuse against a woman; one of them is emotional abuse which specifically is denial of sex and money…..
Yes, that is another form of abuse and violence. In fact, its emotional and psychology violence and some men use it as punishment. Some men will throw it to the face of the woman that they are into extra marital relationship and they don’t care about it, and if the woman tries to contend it, they send her packing. It is quite unfortunate and I know that some marriages have been dissolve base on that. But I think what people need and don’t get enough is marriage counseling and even sex that is most important in marriage. What is your advice to women in abusive relationship or marriage?
I think you have to love yourself first and take control of your life. Don’t allow anybody deny you opportunities of achieving your full potential as a woman. Try to talk with your partner and draw the line .Some people have died in silence in abusive relationship because they keep hoping that it would get better. It also happens both ways because some women are terrible with their husbands. Whether you are a man or woman and you are in abusive relationship life, has no duplicate, you will talk about it and try to sort things out, be patience. But when you see sign that it is not working out, please know when to say enough is enough.