…FIDA protests dehumanisation of women  Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State yesterday signed the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Bill into law.
This came on the heels of attack on a 24-year-old lady, Favour Friday, who was accused of phone theft and pepper was inserted into her private parts to make her confess to the stealing.
This was even as the Edo State Police Command, yesterday declared that no phone was missing, stressing that those accusing Favour of phone theft wanted to extort her.  Incidentally, yesterday also, a group of women, led by members of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Edo State chapter, protested to the Government House, Benin, to register their grievances over the manner Favour was humiliated and assaulted under the guise of looking for a phone.  The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, said investigation into the missing phone, which led to pepper being inserted into the private parts of Favour, revealed that no phone was stolen or missing.  Addressing the women, the state Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe, said the victim was accused of stealing a phone in order to extort money from her.
He, however, assured the protesting women that the police would carry out thorough investigation to ensure the case was not thrown out by any judge.  The Chairperson of FIDA, Iryn Omorogiomwan, asked Odumosu to ensure investigations were expedited so that all accused found guilty were convicted.
The governor’s wife, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, said the crime against Favour shocked human conscience and would not be tolerated by Edo people.
She said her husband was very upset and angered by the incident.  Obaseki, who signed the bill at the Government House, said he was aware that the bill touched on fundamental practices among the people.
The governor, however, promised that he was not only signing the bill as a formality, but would ensure it was implemented to the letter.  He said: “We will not stop by just signing the bill into law, but will commence the much difficult work of implementing it. It must be noted that this bill has been in consideration for over six to eight years but the time has come for us to have a law like this VAP Law, to protect the most vulnerable and weak in our society.  “As a government, we have aligned with the Federation of Women Lawyer (FIDA)’s purpose and objective and therefore have no hesitation in signing the bill into law.”  The governor further commended FIDA, stressing that the time to change the way society responds to violence against the weak has come.  He added: “I am not sure many other states in the nation have such bills. This bill goes to the core of some of the most pressing issues in society, particularly violence against women and other persons.”  The Speaker, Edo State House of Assembly, Hon. Kabiru Adjoto, told the governor that the newly signed VAP law would eliminate violence in private and public life.  He said: “This bill prohibits violence against all persons and provides maximum protection and effective remedy for victims and punishment for offenders and other related matters. This bill was sent to the EDHA in the fourth Assembly but suffered a setback. It also suffered a setback in the fifth Assembly but it was passed in the sixth Assembly.” Adjoto commended Mrs. Obaseki for her doggedness, dedication, and commitment in ensuring that the bill was passed into law.
The speaker said that rape was properly defined in the bill and a rapist would now spend his or her life in prison.  He added: “If a man beats his wife, he risks two years in prison if the case is proven. It is now an offense for men to abandon their duties of upbringing as the responsibility is not for women alone. Female genital mutilation now attracts life imprisonment without an option of fine.”
The governor’s wife commended her husband for assenting to the VAP bill, stressing that the government was gender-sensitive.