The Senate President, Bukola Saraki, is not the only notable politician contesting for a position in the general elections, but the polls’ outcome will decide the future of the political dynasty he inherited from his late father. BIODUN OYELEYE reports  The huge crowd that attended the presidential rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ilorin, Kwara State on Monday, February 11, was an attestation to the big test that awaits Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, this election season.
From all indications, never in the history of the state has there been such an upsurge of opposition against the Saraki political dynasty, which the Senate president inherited from his father, late Dr. Olusola Saraki. Little wonder that APC bigwigs at the rally took more time to speak against the current leader of the Saraki structure than other national issues at the event.  For the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the ruling party is interested in Kwara because there is the need to “discipline” Saraki, while for the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the focus on Kwara is as a result of the need to liberate the people from “an oppressor.” This proclamation resonates well with the campaign mantra of the party in the state, O To Ge.  According to Tinubu, the opposition to Saraki’s leadership of the politics of Kwara State is not an affront on the political dynasty started by the late Saraki, but a need to “discipline” his son, who according to him, stood against his political godfather. He added that since another member of the Saraki family, Gbemisola, is in the APC, it will not be right to fight her family.  His words: “We are not here to fight Baba Saraki’s family because Gbemisola is here and she is his daughter. But, today, we have come to discipline Bukola. This campaign is therefore the celebration of your freedom, it is the celebration of the falling Berlin Wall of the politics of Kwara; it is the end of the oligarchy and end of the emperor that didn’t exist until recently.”  Oshiomole, on his part, said he is anxiously waiting for the outcome of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections to celebrate the fall of Saraki from the control tower of Kwara politics.  “We have come to celebrate the end of Bukola’s tenure”, he told the crowd, adding: “When I saw the crowed on the roadside and listened to what they were saying, I concluded that indeed the end has come for him. I cannot wait for Saturday to see Kwara people celebrate their new freedom. It will be a day for Kwara people and young politicians to realise that the evil a political godson has done to a political godfather will be meted back to him.”  The huge crowd at the rally and the victory of the APC at the bye-election in the recent Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin federal constituency election will serve as tonic to spur members of the party to go all out against Saraki and the PDP in the election. Also boosting the confidence level of APC members, is the decision of the Court Appeal to uphold the plea by the party against the decision of a lower court, which recognised the Ishola Balogun-Fulani led state executive committee of the party.  Had the appellate court dismissed the appeal, it probably would have been the death knell for the party. As it is now, many in the APC believe that the odds are already against the Senate president as according to them, they have the federal might and that they have several of Saraki’s former foot soldiers with them.  But, Saraki is not new to such political battles. Since his entry into politics in year 2000, he had fought series of them. His first real battle was the decision by his father to field him as replacement for then governor Mohammed Lawal. That battle, which raged for the better part of 2002 until 2003, remains a landmark in the political history of the North Central state.  It was a battle that left many dead, several wounded or maimed, while property were lost. The 2019 election season would have replicated that, but for the swift decision by the state government to ban street processions by politicians.
The 2003 election proper was a war, literally, but the elder Saraki won and his son, Bukola came into office. He was sworn into office on May 29, 2003 and became the first son of their legendary father to occupy such an exalted position despite his years of political engagements in the state.  He would go on to become the first in that lineage and indeed in the state, to win a second term election and complete his constitutional mandate. But his successful record was not enough to stave off another battle this time. From the home front, his younger sister Gbemisola (a former senator) had her eyes on the governor’s seat.  While she could not persuade her brother to support the ambition, their father agreed to push it. However, both could not dissuade Bukola and thus emerged the Okere group; reference to the squirrel used as one of the symbols of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), a party floated by the elder Saraki to actrualise his daughter ambition. The younger Saraki’s argument for refusing his sister’s proposal then was that it would amount to cheating other parts of the state if after four years of Lawal, an Ilorin indigene, and eight years of himself, also coming from the same zone, to have another governor also from Ilorin. Besides, he was quoted to have once quipped, “is the Governor’s seat meant for our family alone?” Unable to reconcile their differences, both father and son parted ways; Bukola in the PDP, and his father and sister in the ACPN. Bukola won the election, with his candidate, AbdulFattah Ahmed, but he gave credit of the victory to his father who eventually died in 2012, although not before the duo had reconciled along with their respective group leaders.  While serving as governor, he also had to battle another of his sibling; Oyinkansola, who appeared to the public in controversial circumstances to lead opposition against Bukola when she picked the gubernatorial ticket of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA). Although she lost at the poll, Oyinkansola headed for the tribunal to argue that her brother won in dubious ways, and that she was excluded from the poll unduly. She however lost the case at all stages of the petition.
Again, in 2015, Saraki took up then President Goodluck Jonathan, just as he has decided to stand against President Muhammadu Buhari in this election. He was part of a coalition that led to the emergence of Buhari, but which opened another political battle to dismantle the Saraki dynasty.  Trouble started when he emerged as President of the Senate against the wishes of a section of his party. He was arraigned before the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) on allegations that he did not declare his assets as required by law for political office holders. It was a trial his opponents claimed would last a matter of weeks, after which he would be removed as Senate president, upon conviction and made to abstain from politics for at least 10 years, as stipulated by the law.  His opponents back home, who allegedly provided the documents to nail him, were optimistic then that it would be the end of the ‘Leader’ as Saraki is called by his followers. His followers were jittery but after three years in the dock, the Supreme Court freed him.
While the CCT trial was ongoing, daredevil armed robbers invaded Offa town in Kwara State on April 5, 2018, killed nine policemen and about 21 civilians and went away with undisclosed amount of money.  Two months after the incident, the police came out to say that some of the suspects arrested over the robbery claimed they were political thugs working for the Senate president. Saraki denied the allegation and insisted that the police was on a revenge mission, following the running battle between the Senate and the then Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris.  The CCT trial and the battle to keep his seat in the Senate took most of his time and disconnected him from his base at home. Expectedly, his opponents capitalised on this and intensified the move to oust him from the political leadership of the state. Their first outing was the 2017 local government election in the state, which they insisted they won, but were robbed of victory. The election came at a time when the state owed workers arrears of salaries. Saraki was not on hand to attend to them as had been the tradition of the dynasty. The people, it was believed, rebelled for the neglect.  But, since he joined the PDP and created more time to attend to politics at home, there are signs that the Senate president is regaining lost grounds. This can be seen from the huge crowd at every of his campaign outing as well as well as the endorsements he has received from hitherto politically unfriendly areas.  Added to this is the political game he played against the APC in deciding where power will rotate to in the state in 2023. Ordinarily the people of Kwara North should be in power in the state from 2019 to 2027, but the grit opposition against Saraki from his home base of Kwara Central meant that both the PDP and APC picked their candidates from the central, thus postponing the shift of power to the north by another eight years.  But Saraki has cut that timeline down to four years. His party signed an agreement to that effectwitnessed by traditional rulers. It also conceded the position of Speaker of the state House of Assembly and Secretary to the State Government (SSG) to the zone if PDP wins the election.  This has changed the paradigm in the north since the APC cannot afford to make such commitments. So far, all traditional rulers in the north have openly endorsed the PDP. Leaders of labour groups have also endorsed the party after the state government signed an agreement to defray outstanding obligations after the election.  Against these backdrops, those seeking to decimate the Saraki political dynasty will have to go extra mile if they are to realise their ambition. Senate President: You're day dreaming   As Nigerians prepare for the Presidential and National As-sembly elections on February 16, the race for the Kwara Central Senatorial District will be the cynosure of all eyes as the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, will lock horns with Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe, a political… In "News" BIODUN OYELEYE reports that the grand opposition against the political leadership of Dr. Bukola Saraki in Kwara State, may suffer much damage if those against the Senate President continue to demarket one other.   “Moles Alert: Kwara APC Beware!” That was the title of a message that went viral on… In "Politics" A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State, Alhaji Omar Aiyelabegan, has insisted that contrary to what is presented in the public domain; members of Ajikobi Ward in Ilorin West Local Government no longer want Saraki dynasty, currently led by Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, to give… In "News"