FELIX NWANERI reports on the 2023 presidential bait being dangled by some officials of the presidency ahead of the 2019 general elections, which had been described as a worrisome dimension to the country’s electioneering   The campaigns for the 2019 general elections have been characterised by name calling and propaganda. Though smear campaign is not new to the country’s politics, there is apprehension in some quarters over the ethnic card being played by some of the major political parties, particularly the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The kite for the ethnic card was first flown by the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, in October last year, when he urged the people of South-West to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 elections to guarantee a return of power to the zone in 2023. The former governor of Lagos State, who spoke then at a special Town Hall Meeting on infrastructure organised by the Ministry of Information and Culture and the National Orientation Agency, said besides the massive investments by the Buhari administration on infrastructure across the country and in South- West in particular, the zone will benefit more politically by voting for Buhari. The minister, who hails from the zone, told his audience in Yoruba language and with a proverb: “Do you know that power is rotating to the South-West after the completion of Buhari’s tenure if you vote for him in 2019? Your child cannot surrender her waist for an edifying bead and you will use the bead to decorate another child’s waist. A vote for Buhari in 2019 means a return of power to the South-West in 2023. I am sure you will vote wisely.” While many took Fashola’s pronouncement then with a pinch of salt, it became a subject of national discourse, when Vice -President Yemi Osinbajo’s reiterated the position in December last year. The Vice-President, also from the South-West, spoke during a house-tohouse campaign in Oyo town, Oyo State. He said the success of President Buhari and the APC in the 2019 elections is the only way the South-West can secure the presidency in 2023. According to him, the 2019 presidential election matters to the Yoruba people, because the region has a larger interest in 2023. His words: “The 2019 general elections is our own. We are not looking at the 2019 but 2023. If we get it in 2019, Yoruba will get it in 2023. Because if we don’t get it in 2019, we may not get it in 2023 and it may take a very long time to get it. We need to look at tomorrow and not because of today. What we are doing now is for tomorrow and not for today.” Before Fashola and Osinbajo’s “wise counsel” to their kinsmen, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, had told the people of South-East that they will have a better chance of producing a president in 2023 if they support the second term ambition of President Buhari. Mustapha told a delegation of the Ebonyi State chapter of the APC, who visited his office in April last year that though the Igbo voted massively for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2015 presidential election, which was won by Buhari, the South- East must support the ruling party this time in its own interest. “Preach it to the other South-East states that the shortest way to Igbo presidency is to support Buhari in 2019.” Interestingly, the SGF reiterated that President Buhari will hand over the baton of leadership to an Igbo by the time he is through with his second term in office in 2023, while during the inauguration of the South-East chapter of the Presidential Support Committee (PSC) in Abia State. No doubt the campaign window offer candidates and chieftains of the various parties the opportunity to market the unique selling points of their respective platforms to the electorate, but most analysts and stakeholders believe that issues rather than playing of ethnic card should shape the campaigns. According to them, the 2023 bait being dangled by the ruling party before the South-West and South-East amounts to divisive politics that will blow no one any good as there is already lack of bond among the various sections of the country. Reference was made to the campaigns for the 2015 presidency, which divided Nigerians along ethno-religious lines. Though it was acknowledged that the Nigeria’s fragmentation predates her independence given the country’s over 350 ethnic groups, it was noted that efforts by successive administrations and the present APC-led administration to cement the crack have not yielded the desired results. Consequently, the country is still seen by most of its citizens as a collection of nations within a nation. A member of the PDP Presidential Council and the Director of the Campaign’s CUPP/Inter-party Directorate, Senator Ben Obi, who described the vice president’s comment as insensitive and height of mischief, said: “The PDP will win the 2019 presidential election in which case Osinbajo’s reckless and morally outrageous scenario will never come to pass.” He added: “The mere thought of making that insensitive declaration after Obasanjo’s eight-year presidential tenure and Osinbajo’s four years as vice president, in the context in which power is yet to rotate to the South-East, is the height of political intolerance and mischief-making.” Obi advised Osinbajo to reflect on the historical circumstances that threw up the Olusegun Obasanjo Vs Olu Falae presidential contest in 1999 and why former Vice President, late Dr. Alex Ekwueme, sacrificed so much to ensure that Obasanjo won that election. Second Republic lawmaker, Junaid Mohammed, who also Osinbajo and Fashola, decried what he described as attempt by the APC-led administration to derail the country’s democratic process and cause mayhem over the remarks by the duo. He said: “ For them to come out and be making this kind of reckless statement in a country with an understanding that there should be zoning and rotation is something that should be con-demned. “Whether the Igbos are right or wrong in agitating for presidency in 2023 is beside the point, the point is that theoretically or otherwise every Nigerian has the right to aspire to that office. Any attempt to now bring a counter agitation to that of Igbo will be completely useless and serve no purpose. It will only further divide the country.” Pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere, also described the vice president and minister’s comment as divisive politics. Afenifere’s spokesperson, Yinka Odumakin, who wondered what the Yoruba people had gained since Osinbajo became vice president, said the 2023 bait will not work in the forthcoming elections as what the Yoruba want is restructuring of Nigeria by means of true federalism. Noting that Osinbajo has so far opposed everything dear to the Yoruba people, including restructuring, Odumakin said: “In the four years that Osinbajo has been vice president, what has he done for the Yoruba people? All the things that are dear to the Yoruba, he has opposed, including restructuring. He has sided with the oppressors of the Yoruba people. “When they killed the Yoruba evangelist of the Redeemed Christian Church of God under his nose in Abuja as vice president, did he say a word? But because he wants to contest election in 2023, he now remembers that he’s a Yoruba man and he wants to come and spread division among us.” Insisting that the South-West will only support a candidate with plans for restructuring, he added: “We have had an eight-year presidency. The Ijaw have had six years. The North have had more than everybody. But what is their lot? It’s poverty. We don’t want to stay under this arrangement. The arrangement we want is where we will have control over our fears and for every section of Nigeria to develop at their own pace. That is certainly what we want and that is what Buhari, Osinbajo and the All Progressives Congress have said they don’t want. We will reject that at the polls.” Apex Igbo body, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, on its part, through its National Publicity Secretary, Uche Achi-Okpaga, said the Igbo remained an integral part of Project Nigeria and therefore should be treated with respect. His words: “I do not expect Prof. Osinbajo to say a different t h i n g . T h e 2023 Yoruba Presidency is a plot presumably well hatched and efforts are being exerted to win it successfully as dramatised in the public pronouncements earlier by Fashola and now the bleeding utterances of Osinbajo. “However, l am dumbfounded that these are men that believe in the existence of God but, perhaps unwittingly, do not believe in the God factor. The Igbo are the descendants of King David, the man after God’s heart. Anything you do in Nigeria without the active cooperation and participation of the lgbo would always crumble as exemplified in the present administration of President Buhari.” Another Igbo group, Eastern Peoples Front (EPF), described the statement of the vice president as “vexatious, provocative and an affront to the people of the South-East, whose turn it is to produce the president of Nigeria when power returns to the south.” National Coordinator and Leader, Elder Ken Emechebe, said: “We are not unaware of what this insidious campaign is all about. It is a devious blackmail aimed at arm-twisting the Igbo into voting for Buhari. But the plot is dead on arrival. “Osinbajo’s revelation that Buhari promised to hand over power to the Yoruba is instructive. The implication is that any Igbo vote for Buhari is a wasted vote. We want to make it clear to the day dreamers that the political destiny of the Igbo does not rest in the hands one man or any individual, be it Buhari or any other person. The Igbo know what is best for them and will make their choice without intimidation or blackmail from the Osinbajos and Fasholas of the South West. “As a matter of fact, the Vice President’s statement is immature and impolitic. It gives Buhari away as a Nigerian president who does not mean well for the Igbo. If that is the message Osinbajo set out to send to the Igbo, then he has struck the wrong chord.” Parties insist on national interest Opposition political parties, which also faulted the vice president, noted that what should matter to Nigerians at the moment is national interest rather than sectional concern. The PDP Presidential Campaign Council decried that the APC and the Buhari presidency in their desperation to hang onto power had resorted to trading with the lure of 2023 presidency by promising both the South-East and South-West zones the position in exchange for votes. A statement signed by one of the council’s spokespersons, Kassim Afegbua, read: “Giving out two promises has exposed the insincerity and dubious intention of the Buhari-led Federal Government with the people of the South-East and South-West geopolitical zones with empty promises of bequeathing power to the two zones at the same time in 2023. “Speaking on behalf of President Buhari in Owerri last week, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, told the APC that the President would hand over the reins of power to a south-easterner, while calling on the people to support Mr. President. Meanwhile, the Vice-President also told leaders of the South-West to support the re-election of President Buhari so as to get the Presidency in 2023. This is why Nigerians cannot take the APC and the Buhari presidency serious any longer as we prepare for the 2019 elections.” According to the council, two principal officers of the same government cannot be fooling Nigerians with vainglorious promises all in the name of re-election, adding that such discordant tunes by the first and second citizens of Nigeria had exposed lack of synergy and display of double standard and doublespeak by the chieftains of a government. It added: “How can the President be promising south-easterners the Presidency when his Vice-President is also promising the south-westerners same position in 2023, all in the name of 2019 re-election? “This is a clear show of deceit, desperation, crass insincerity and hypocrisy of the highest order. This is a clarion call on southeasterners not to trust such carrot being dangled before them as it has become obvious that this government neither fulfils promises nor keeps any covenant.” National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, added: “It is laughable that Prof. Osinbajo is swimming in wishful thinking, even when it has become obvious that he and President Buhari will no longer have any political relevance after May 29, 2019, given their dismal performance in an administration that is reputed as the worst, the most corrupt and the most abhorred in the history of Nigeria. “Is it not ludicrous that Osinbajo thinks he can sweet-talk and cajole the people of the South-West to shed their already established support for PDP Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, when they are the worst hit by his poor showing in the incompetent Buhari administration, particularly, as the head of the failed economic team that plunged our economy into recession? “Our ambitious vice president in his political hallucination has failed to realize that the South-West is politically sophisticated and cannot fall for his gimmicks and selfserving venture.” Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who also spoke on the issue, advised the Igbo to be wary of the promise by the APC government to hand over power to them in 2023, as according to him “it’s dangerous to take the APC government serious.” He, however, urged Nigerians to give the Igbo a chance in the executive arm of government in Nigeria, noting that out of the three major regions in the country, the North and South-West have occupied the presidency, while the Igbo are yet to do so. He called on the Igbo to work together now that their son is the vice presidential candidate of a major political party. He said that the success of that exercise holds great possibilities for them. In its reaction, the APC Presidential Campaign Organisation, said there was nothing fraudulent, dubious or contradictory about the promises made by Buhari and Osinbajo to the South-East and South-West zones. Spokesman for the organisation, Barr. Festus Keyamo, said: “Go back and listen carefully to what they said at each occasion. Nobody is promising anybody anything definite. They are simply telling both regions very simply that they stand a chance. They may, depending on how they work. “Some people are just rushing to town to make comments without understanding the context in which these promises were made. All of them, including Fashola, are saying one thing: Vote for Buhari for you to produce the next president in 2023. What it means is that they should work hard. “No party will zone its presidential ticket to a region that does not like it. Did anybody use that word ‘definitely’ that we are giving you the presidency? They are simply saying, if you work hard, you stand a chance if you deliver the votes. It is conditional, that is why they are begging them. The context in which all of them are saying this is that whichever region worked hard and delivers the votes would produce the next President. That is the truth of the matter.” Keyamo added that since the presidency will shift to the South after Buhari’s tenure, it was only wise and logical that the zones in the region should work hard to benefit from the power shift. He, therefore, charged the PDP Campaign Organisation to concentrate on its own power shift agenda, accusing them of ignoring the uncertainty surrounding Atiku’s promise to run for only one term, which, he said, has been abandoned so early in the day. FELIX NWANERI reports on the 2023 presidential bait being dangled by some officials of the presidency ahead of the 2019 general elections, which has been described as a worrisome dimension to the country’s electioneering     The campaigns for the 2019 general elections have been characterised by name calling and… In "Politics" Once again, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has stirred the hornets’ nest with his postulation that the 2019 presidential election will determine Yoruba’s fate in 2023; saying Yoruba vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 will automatically position the ethnic nationality to clinch the presidency in 2023: Otherwise, the Yoruba will… In "Back Page Column" Igbo apex socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday described as selfish scheming by some notable Yoruba leaders for the South-West presidency. Some Yoruba leaders, including Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; former Lagos State Governors, Senator Ahmed Tinubu and Babatunde Fashola, had urged the people of the South- West to vote massively for President… In "News"