For patients who receive clot-busting drugs after a stroke, intensive blood pressure lowering is safe and it reduces their risk of bleeding in the brain.
According to a new study published in the ‘The Lancet’, brain bleeds were a major potential side effect of clot-busting drugs.
The findings were presented at an American Stroke Association meeting in Honolulu. Worldwide, stroke accounts for nearly five per cent of lives lost due to premature death or disability, and 10 per cent of all deaths.
Lead investigator Craig Anderson who is the executive director of The George Institute for Global Health, in China said, “This study now clearly shows more intensive blood pressure control than was currently recommended has the potential to make [clot-busting] treatment safer, by reducing the risk of serious bleeding in the brain. Co-lead investigator Tom Robinson, head of the Cardiovascular Research Center at the University of Leicester, England, said that the findings point to the need for more research to better understand the underlying mechanisms of early intensive blood pressure lowering, “given that the reduction in brain haemorrhage failed to translate into improvements in overall recovery for patients.” To gauge the safety and effectiveness of intensive blood pressure lowering, researchers looked at more than 2,000 stroke patients treated at 110 hospitals in 15 countries between 2013 and 2018.
The investigators looked specifically at systolic blood pressure — that’s the top number in a blood pressure reading. Researchers assessed whether lowering it to less than 140 mm Hg could safely reduce the risk of brain bleeds and post-stroke disability better than the standard target of less than 180 mm Hg over three days. After the intensive regimen, significantly fewer patients had bleeding in the brain and serious bleeding was also less likely. But both groups had similar levels of disability after 90 days.
In addition, the researchers did not identify any harms linked to intensive blood pressure lowering.
More research is needed to learn why the reduced risk of bleeding in the brain did not lead to improved outcomes for patients, the study authors said. A treatment for strokes, mechanical thrombectomy, which can bring patients ‘back to life’ on the operating table is now available. The revolutionary technique, which is already used across the United Kingdom, UK works for more people and is far more effective than traditional drugs. The procedure involves carefully removing the… In "Health" Scientists said a new sensor could identify within minutes, patients who have suffered a stroke. Using a pinprick of blood, the test may also be able to show the severity of the stroke by measuring levels of a tell-tale compound in the blood. The researchers believe that the sensor, which… In "News" Scientists have raised hope after a new treatment that could save more lives of stroke patients and reduce lifelong disability, showed promise. According to the findings of a study published on Wednesday in ‘The New England Journal of Medicine,’ the new treatment, known as thrombectomy, uses a mechanical device to… In "News"