Police in Ogun State have arrested a 39-year-old woman, Iwuagwu Onyinyechi, for allegedly defrauding a church-based organisation of N100 million.
The suspect was said to have perpetrated the fraud under the guise of assisting the organisation, MIA Enterprise, to raise fund for its charity programme.
Her arrest, however, followed a petition by the Lagos-based lawyer of the organisation, Godswill Ojakovo, to the Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed this in a statement yesterday, said the petitioner complained that his client was defrauded by the suspect through an act of forgery.
According to the petition, the suspect claimed to have gotten a Local Purchase Order (LPO) from a company known as Location 3 Properties and appealed to MIA organisation to fund the LPO, consequent upon which N33,118,000 was transferred online to her.
While the organisation was awaiting the repayment of the amount, Onyinyechi allegedly came with another LPOs she purportedly got from Ancillia Catholic Hospital, Iju and Holifull School Ikorodu upon which another N77 million was given to her after showing relevant documents and proof to back her claims.
As soon as she got the last payment in September 2018, the suspect disappeared into thin air.
The alleged disappearance prompted the church to make discreet enquiries about the LPOs submitted by the suspect, after which it found out that they were all forged.
Upon the church’s petition, Iliyasu directed his monitoring team to go after the suspect and bring her to book.
Oyeyemi said: “The team technically tracked the suspect and got her arrested on 21st of January 2019.
“On interrogation, the suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. She admitted that all the LPOs presented by her were all forged as most of the companies where she claimed to have got the LPOs were only imaginary.”
The PPRO said the commissioner had directed the monitoring team to arraign the suspect as soon as the investigation was concluded.