The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State has said that it delivered for President Muhammad Buhari in last Saturday’s election against some forces that ganged up against the party. The state coordinator of APC Presidential Campaign Council, Arch. Tonye Cole, who made this known yesterday at a press conference in Port Harcourt, also said that thugs who in the past hijacked ballot boxes, and inflated figures didn’t have the chance to carry out such during the election. Cole pointed out that unlike in 2015 when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) scored over a million votes and the APC polled less than 70,000, the result announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the last election, shows “a new beginning for the APC.” He said: “I wish to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR for his re-election as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and to address the impressive achievements by Rivers APC at the polls in spite of the many forces that have conspired to hamstring the party from the days of wanton killings and beheadings of APC supporters to the internal battles and court cases of recent times. “The result of the just-concluded Presidential elections is an indication of a new beginning and trajectory with respect to elections in Rivers State. “Gone are the days when political thugs would hijack electoral materials and allocate hundreds of thousands of imaginary votes to their party. “The results from the various units, wards and local government areas confirm this and further highlights the depth of rigging and manipulation of the 2015 elections that APC as a party had complained about.
“All that is required of anyone desirous of the truth is to compare the 2015 electoral figures where total votes cast was 1,584,768 with APC getting 69,238 while PDP got 1,487,075; to that of 2019 where total votes cast was 666,585 with APC getting 150,710 (even after 72,000 votes in Emohua was unconstitutionally removed) and PDP getting 473,971 and the story would clearly unfold.  “APC has withstood a judicial lynching that has long since baffled legal luminaries of how the Justices Nworgu, Yahaya and Omotosho’s judgements came about.
“That the PDP would interfere with another party’s internal process in a court of law and secure a judgement that prevents their major competitor from campaigning in any form or manner, barring any of their candidates from being on the ballot is mind-boggling, especially against clear Supreme Court judgements that prevents one political party from interfering with the affairs of another as in the case of Alhassan v Ishaku, PDP v Sylva, PDP v Angodi etc.
“Our party also had to contend with numerous court battles, a brutal internal conflict with Senator Magnus Abe that disenfranchised members of the party, many of whom have now openly decamped to the PDP, multiple attacks on the party at campaign rallies of the opposition and severe attempts to break the spirit of the party faithful.  “This is the true victory and a loud statement of intent that the people of Rivers State are sick and tired of governments that promote fear and intimidation, extol violence as a virtue and only come around during election times to make promises they have no intention of keeping.”
Cole said that the party remains committed in the conduct of peaceful elections in the state.
He added: “I have been shocked and saddened by statements and comments attributed to the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, that Prof. Charles Dokubo-Quakers, Prince Tonye Princewill and I are responsible for the carnage and deaths in Abonnema last weekend.” The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) has taken a fresh twist as one of the party’s blocks; the New Peoples Democratic Party (New PDP) has issued a seven-day ultimatum to the leadership of the ruling party to convene a meeting to redress grievances of its members. The… In "News" The senator representing Rivers South East in the Senate, Magnus Ngei Abe, has rejected the adoption of Tonye Dele-Cole as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), stressing that his emergence contravened the ideals in which the party was formed. He said the party's National Working Committee (NWC)… In "News" At least, 14 persons were feared dead yesterday and several others injured in a stampede while leaving the Adokie Amasiemaka Stadium, Port Harcourt, venue of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) rally, where President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders attended.   The victims, including men and women, were leaving the… In "News"