A youth group in Kwara state has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order the immediate suspension of the Director General, National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Mallam Ishaq Kawu Modibbo and the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, over alleged involvement in the N2.5 billion corruption charges levelled against them. The group, Concerned Kwara Youth, said it is expedient to suspend the two government officials pending outcome of the charges against them. Spokesman for the group,Prince Haliru Dantosho Mahmud, while commending the federal government on steps taken so far on the matter, however, condemned Buhari’s alleged selective style of fighting corruption, saying that it was designed to clampdown on members of the opposition PDP and other Nigerians with dissenting views against the Buhari led APC government. It is recalled that the federal government had filed a case against the NBC director general before a federal high court in Abuja, few days ago over allegations of involvement in N2.5 billion corruption charges. Both the DG and the Minister have denied the allegations. Mahmud said: “We have observed with great disappointment how former members of the PDP with high profile criminal charges are being shielded by the presidency because they have now defected to the ruling APC. This further confirms the statement of the National Chairman of the APC Comrade Adams Oshiomhole at the presidential campaign rally in Delta state where he said ‘no matter the level of crime you have committed in the past, once you have joined APC,  all your sins are forgiven.’ “None the less,  Nigerians are losing confidence in the president’s sincerity in the fight against corruption. The period within which a petition was submitted against the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen and his subsequent suspension by the president without following due process is worrisome and make the below questions very pertinent (1) if it was so easy for President Muhammad Buhari to unilaterally suspend the Chief Justice of Nigeria within a short time and without recourse to the rule of law, why has it been so difficult for him to suspend or sack government officials and political office holders who have been alleged or indicted? (2) Why did it take Buhari government so many months to suspend the former secretary to the government of the federation, Babachir Lawal after he was indicted by the vice president, Yemi Osinbajo panel and just been arraigned after almost two years? “In the light of the above, we urge the president to be sincere and engage in a holistic fight against corruption irrespective of ethnic, religious and partisan consideration”.