The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State has raised the alarm over an ongoing effort by Senator Godswill Akpabio to doctor election result in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District in his favour. The election results so far collated and pasted at various polling units have all turned out in favour of the PDP candidate for Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, Engr. Chris Ekpenyong. In a release signed by Comrade Ini Ememobong, PDP State Publicity Secretary, and made available to newsmen in Uyo yesterday, the party said the information at its disposal indicated that the Electoral Officer, Charles Ibiapuye Esq, had finally succumbed to pressure emanating from death threats and financial inducement of 200,000 USD as it now filled results’ sheets for units and wards where elections had been cancelled. It reads: “They are even going further to change results won by the PDP in favour of the APC. It can be recalled that elections in Ekpenyong, Ikpe and Idoro Ikot wards were stalled as materials were hijacked and destroyed by thugs loyal to the Senator. “Senator Godswill Akpabio accompanied by Ibanga Akpabio, Hon. Emmanuel Akpan, Hon. Nse Ntuen, armed police soldiers and thugs are currently at the INEC office at Essien Udim to ensure that the result is upturned in his favour. “Since yesterday, there have been several attempts by Senator Godswill Akpabio to change the results of Essien Udim Local Government Area from the mass’ rejection that the voters served him to a huge number in his favour. This move has suffered several setbacks since then. It is common knowledge that all other local government areas in that Senatorial District have collated and submitted their results, except Essien Udim and this has been confirmed by our agents. “We cannot allow Senator Akpabio to continue his inglorious precedence of election malpractice. He should simply admit his massive rejection by the people of his Senatorial District and head back to the only place where he can go now – home! “Foreign and domestic observers are hereby invited to note these infractions and report accordingly.”