The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State has debunked results of the election conducted in the state on Saturday allegedly being circulated online. In a press release signed by the Chairman of the party in the state, Ini Okopido, made available to the media, he said the release of fake election results allegedly by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) must be stopped at its root. “Our usual source within the party has informed us of further plans to hold emergency meetings to consolidate on the already released fake results. Having disrupted the peaceful conduct of the electoral process in several polling units across the state, it is evident that the PDP are desperate and are grabbing at straws. However, they should be mindful that release of fake results is a punishable offence as it misleads the public and can go on to instigate violence, ” Okopiodo stated. He called on the people of Akwa Ibom State and Nigeria to adhere to the guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to discredit all social media results and allow the commission to conduct the collation to allow due process. “Our call is therefore to INEC, Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC) and all lawenforcement agencies to continually warn the PDP and their followers within the state that anyone who flouts the law on the announcement of official results and violence will be made to face the law.” He said the APC has issues with the conduct of the election, stating that “we have reported cases of missing result sheets and election materials that never left INEC office to polling units. “We, therefore, urge all well-meaning citizens of Akwa Ibom, Nigeria and even reasonable members of the opposition not to be bought by these cheap antics of the PDP. “Let’s restrain our wards from being used by these unscrupulous elements. The Independent National Electoral Commission is the only authorised commission that can release trusted and certified results. “We enjoin everyone to discard every other form of result as we anticipate results,” Okopiodo stated. However as at 8 pm yesterday about 10 local government results out of 31 was released to the press and PDP won in all with wide margin.