Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Wednesday said he has no personal grudges against President Muhammadu Buhari. President Buhari is presently in the state in continuation of his campaigns for the February 16 presidential election. Governor Ortom stated this while speaking to reporters at the AirForce Base airport in Makurdi, the Benue State Capital where he received President Buhari and his delegation to the state. President Buhari arrived the airport at exactly 10:37 am and was also received by stalwarts of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who joined the governor of the state. Among them were Senator George Akume, the APC governorship candidate Emmanuel Jime and the minister of Agriculture Chief Audu Ogbe. Speaking, governor Ortom explained that his decision to give adequate support for preparation ahead of the President campaign visit was in recognition that Buhari was the leader of Nigeria. He said making arrangement for the President such as this, was in line with protocol and was beyond parties lissues. Governor Ortom explained that “Mr President is beyond party, he is the president of the federal republic of Nigeria and whatever he is doing, it is our responsibility to give him adequate protocol. “He is our president, and is beyond party and so I am doing all the needful. “There is no specal thing I am doing, than what I am suppose to do as governor of Benue State irrespective of party because he remains my president and I respect him. “I have no personal issues with him; we talk about policies and issues, there is no personal grudge. “So, I am here to receive him, and I have made adequate arrangement. This State belongs to Mr President. So he has access, he can be here and do whatever he wants.” the Benue State governor noted. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state has said citizens of the state are opposed to the second term bid of President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) because they have failed to register any positive federal presence and secure the lives and property of the people. The governor… In "News" Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday brushed aside allegations made against him by the campaign organisation of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Emmanuel Jime, Ortom was accused of sponsoring smear campaign against its candidate following his (Jime's), reported endorsement by a Fulani group.   The governor… In "News" Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday said citizens of the state were opposed to second term bid by President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) because they have failed to register any positive federal presence and secure the lives and property of the people. The governor made the… In "News"