Since she made her debut in the Nigerian entertainment scene with appearance in Big Brother Africa 2014, Nollywood actress turned-movie producer, Lilian Afegbai’s career has been on a steady rise. The model and TV Presenter has featured in MNet series and Tinsel. In this interview with LANRE ODUKOYA, the thespian who picked her first AMVCA award in 2018 spoke about her new lingerie line, ‘Lily’s Secret, formative years, ideal man, dealing with negativity amongm other issues.  You’ve been promoting a new brand, Lily’s Secret, could you reveal what secret this is?
My name is Lilian, a sexy goddess. Then I’m the secret to your beauty. What is Lily’s secret all about?
It’s a lingerie line that caters for everything that makes a woman confident; one unique thing about my line is the fact that it caters for all women shapes from skinny to plus sizes because I realize in my research that most times the plus size are usually neglected. And the fact you are on the big side does not make you less human. In all, everything that makes a woman sexy is all that I cater for. Why did you choose now – when the female panties are causing rumpus, from stealing to ritual purposes – to roll out the venture?
To be honest, I will always say the circle you surround yourself with matters a lot because I don’t see myself falling a victim of such; I know it’s currently happening but I don’t believe they pick any kind of panties. I believe when the panties are sexy and pretty, it does not match up with their target, so I believe they go for the dirty and ugly looking panties. What is the texture of your brand?
I deal in all kinds of textures because some women like theirs silky while others go for the lacy ones; there are varieties and that is one factor that distinguishes us from others. Is it strictly owned by you or is the brand a franchise?
It’s solely my personal business. Although productions are made in Turkey, in future I look forward to making my production in Nigeria but certain factors are hindering that for now. Anyway, my team and I are currently working on something because I believe we have better people here than all over the world. Knowing that you have a huge fan base including male and female folks; don’t you think you are limiting your brand to just a section of the market?
To be honest, bear in mind that in Lagos, we have brands like ‘Still Broke’ that is strictly for men underwear, but we don’t have such on the female side just like we have Victoria Secret and all that. For me, I don’t think the men are lacking because it’s just their boxers but women have lot of luxuries to themselves that is why we want to look sexy at all times. Mind you, my brand isn’t just about pants and bras alone; we make you look sexy for your husband, boyfriends and other men. How long did you nurse the dream of starting up the lingerie line?
To be honest, I started nursing the idea right from when I started developing boobs, I knew I was going to do this, but I never envisaged that it would happen this soon because I was thinking it would come to fruition probably when I’m married. I thought it was something I won’t be able to do, it looked larger than how I saw it. Last March, I started telling myself that I could do this. Then I started making enquiries, booking tailors, but I was way scared. Towards the end of last year, I had a store, a friend was opening a mall, and she called me and said that I should get a space since I was planning to start something. I was sceptical about it, the thought of rent and other expenses scared me, but then I paid for it even before it was ready, because I spoke to myself that I needed to get to work. I told myself even if I had N1million, I would start. I wasn’t going to wait until it was N100million. I told myself that if I do not start that I will keep nursing this dream and it may never come true. I am a go-getter; if I say I want to do it, I just do it, I do not need time. I nursed it literally for a few years, but to make this production come to pass it took just five to six months. How do you plan to sustain the success of Lily’s Secret when it finally grows?
The truth is, some people go into businesses that they do not have passion for, and if the money doesn’t come the first time, they give up. But this is Lily’s secret, even if in the first year, God forbids, I don’t make profit, I know that there are better days ahead. I already know and I’m ready for anything. Even when the challenges come, I can’t give up because I love Lily’s secret, I love making people feel sexy. Last year, the dress you wore to Africa Magic Viewer’s Choice Awards (AMVCA) got the internet buzzing, what was your reaction when the negative comments started coming in?
Well my reaction to it, I handle negativity perfectly, but I’m not saying that I do not care about it. At the end what matters most is myself. As a matter of fact that night, I looked very sexy and very hot nothing else at all mattered. If they do not talk about you then something is wrong. I have no issues with those who write negative things about me. It’s funny that when my friends called my attention to the story online, all that mattered to me was whether it was written along with the story that I won an AMVCA award. What has it been like in your social circle after winning the AMVCA award?
Nothing really spectacular, but rather it made me push for more. The movie I won that AMVCA award for was a challenging movie. It almost led me to depression. It made me to keep pushing. It made me realise that people are watching. It brought about the idea of Lily’s Secret. If you work hard it will happen. You cannot cheat God. I felt that it was going to be a success. Despite the challenges in putting out your first work as a producer; are you still determined to do more?
Yes definitely, I just finished my second production in December titled ‘Double Strings’ and it starred great talents like Annie Idibia and other popular actors; so I keep pushing and doing more. So how do you strike the balance between passion and business?
I’ve always wanted to be an actress, right from when I was little; I always called myself a star. I would go for dancing competition. I used to act in church, from high school and university days. My entertainment life has just been me. I feel that’s passion, but I don’t confuse passion for business because your passion sometimes will not give you money. It will probably give you money but not now. So you will keep doing your passion and looking for other ways to survive. But then in this country, are we really paying what we deserve? But we can’t judge them. So we are making do with what we have. We have people like Rita Dominic who paved the way for us; without them, we won’t be here. We got it easy. These people worked for it. Whenever I see them, I give them utmost respect. Aside acting what other things are you into?
Aside acting and because I like money, I’m into real estate, I sell chandeliers. So I do other things that bring money and that has been helpful and what makes me to be able to produce a movie and star a big name like Rita Dominic; but if you look at my acting, I haven’t got to the stage where I will be paid lots of money. So how do you balance business and passion? I do things I love, I make money from it and I love it. What is your choice of men?
I just look out for a God-fearing man, someone who is hardworking and don’t forget that being rich and being hardworking is different. You are a dancer, a blogger, an actress, producer and also comfortable in your own right; don’t you think this might scare men away?
I do not deal with low self-esteem men. A confident man will never be intimidated by a ladies success, instead he will try to make you better. He will push you to achieve your dreams. I will not get to a point where I feel that I’d not need a man. I very well need a man in my life so that we could share and achieve our dreams together. There is no harm in that. Have you ever been heartbroken?
Yes, back in university. Have you ever had any reason to doubt yourself?
I had a challenge with my boobs; I thought it was too small. I thought of having a breast enlargement. But now, I love how I look. I have conquered that part of me.