President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday declared that only God will punish the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the main opposition, that was in power for 16 years in the country before his victory in 2015. While speaking at a meeting with local and international support groups at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, President Buhari said those proven to be corrupt would be prosecuted, their properties would be confiscated and sold while the money realised would be put into the treasury for public use. Addressing leaders of 1,000 support groups, the president said: “Large scale abuse of trust, only God can give them punishment but those we can touch, we will get them prosecuted. We have said properties confiscated should be sold and the money put into treasury and we will use.” Explaining further, he said that when he assumed office, he approached the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) who told him there was no money in the treasury while also noting that there was no infrastructure or any developmental achievements to justify the draining of the substantial earnings from crude oil. “I have said this for the umpteenth time and I have challenged them to prove me wrong but in those 16 years of PDP rule, Nigeria was getting 2.1 million times 100 (2.1 million barrels by $100 per barrel) everyday, every week, but when we came on board, the price fell to between $37-38 and hung around $40-$50. I went to the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria and asked him for money and he said there was no money.” The last time roads rehabilitation took place, he said, was under General Sani Abacha, when he served as Chairman of Petroleum Trust Fund, stressing that the roads were being rehabilitated up to the east. Speaking on his integrity, President Buhari said: “If I didn’t stick to my principle of accountability, I would have been in trouble by now and I have no regrets. “Everybody wants to be comfortable but the most important thing is to live within your means and bear the consequence.”