Issuing the first operational licence to a stand-alone micro-insuance operator signals positive stakes in grassroots insurance mobilisation. Sunday Ojeme reports  Last week, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) took another positive step in widening and expanding insurance penetration in Nigeria by issuing an operational licence to the first ever full-fledged stand-alone microinsurance operator. The action came nearly two years or more that the guidelines for the exercise were released to the public, especially operators and new entrants, who feel the need to delve into the risk bearing sector. For years, the nation’s insurance exercise had basically concentrated its operation on not just the urban centres but also on big-ticket risks, thereby leaving the grassroots and operators of small businesses to conduct their activities at the whims and caprices of weather and circumstances. Thus, rather than allow every Nigerian to benefit from the services, only a few have always had this privilege, and it also turned out that the industry itself had also suffered from the self-centred attempt at profiteering, as the yearly gross premium continues to suffer. Optimism The situation may, however, begin to experience some positive changes, henceforth, if other policies lined up are gradually implemented by the Federal Government, either through the commission or any other agency of government. Micro insurance products are designed to ensure simplicity and affordability. For the poor and low-income populace, their operations and forms of business require small amount of income, assets, premium and benefits. This form of insurance provide them with financial service aimed at providing them with compensation for the adverse event through riskpooling. Specifically, NAICOM), as earlier promised the public, granted the first operational licence to one of the applicants for the scheme, GOXI, to operate as a state composite microinsurance company. With the licence, GOXI is authorised to play in both life and non-life segments in that category. Its services will, however, be restricted to Lagos state. According to the commission, this is one of several applications received from individuals and corporate entities requesting approval for registration as micro insurance operators. Promise kept Last year, the Deputy Commissioner for Insurance (Technical), Mr Sunday Thomas, had hinted that two microinsurance companies would soon commence operation as they were on the verge of securing regulatory approval to do so and enable the industry insure about 80 million low income earners in the country. Insider source had hinted that that one of the firms was likely to target Lagos and SouthWest markets in a bid to increase insurance penetration and acceptance in the country. Thomas confirmed that the commission had applications from five companies of which two of them were at the verge of being given licence, stressing that the duo would be the first two set of companies to meet the microinsurance requirements. “We had applications from like five companies and two of them are at the verge of being given license. Those will be the first two set of companies that meet the requirements.” He stated that some years back, when micro insurance started, it went through a lot of discussions in the market, but insurance operators were not taking advantage of it as only a few companies showed interest. “The requirement then was to establish a unit recognised for that purpose, properly manned with products that address the needs of the people at the lower level of the pyramid. We didn’t have much of that,” he pointed out. That, he said, necessitated the review of the existing microinsurance guideline to what it is today. He said: “We then said, let micro insurance stand alone. Those who will have it as their business, should do that alone, and then we reverse the guidelines. We had applications from like five companies and two of them are at the verge of being given license.” Capitalisation/guidelines NAICOM had in 2018 lowered the capital base of microinsurance outfits to make it easier for many investors to come in. The revised guideline also classified microinsurance operation into Unit, State and National licences. For a National insurer, such composite microinsurance operator is expected to be capitalised to the tune of N600 million, while N400 million minimum capital base is needed from a General microinsurance operator and N200 million for a Life microinsurer. According to the guideline,national operators are allowed to have presence in at least six states within the three geopolitical zones of the federation. For a State microinsurer, the minimum capital base is pegged at NI00 million, while a Unit microinsurer investor must be capitalised to the tune of N40 million, with operation in one location within a local community. The commission described the guideline, which took effect from January 1, 2018, as part of the financial inclusion strategy to stimulate growth in the sector, especially the retail end of the market, drive insurance penetration and service the lower income earners who hitherto have been excluded from insurance. The regulator made it mandatory for those interested to make themselves visible, as they must be seen to be serving low income earners in the grassroots. It is on record today that despite the enormous benefits of insurance, Nigeria is reputed to have the lowest insurance penetration rate globally at 0.68 per cent, with less than three percent of its over 170 million population taking up major insurance policies. This is a challenge that ranks tops amongst many other issues affecting the sector and it is imperative for stakeholders to continue to find creative ways of advancing the frontiers of insurance business in Nigeria. The penetration level of the insurance market could receive a quantum leap if industry players considered extending its awareness efforts to the unreached segments of the society, rather than the current situation where they focus their public enlightenment campaigns on urban areas and also focus on the high end of the economy, which only captures the formal sector. Regulator’s views According to the Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, “If people understood the benefit of insurance better, they will definitely imbibe the culture of taking insurance.” This is a key reason the operation of microinsurance business was legally recognised and necessary to complement the nation’s economic growth and development. The Deputy Director Authorisation and Policy, NAICOM, Mr. Leo Akah stated : “The microinsurance policies are meant to cover little risks, excluding special risks like professional indemnity, motor insurance (except tricycles and motorcycles) and pecuniary risks with sums insured higher than N1,000,000.” According to him, though about 10 insurance firms are jostling for microinsurance licenses, no firm in Nigeria has been granted a licence yet to practice this line of business. The microinsurance market is essentially streamlined to cater to the low-income population, who are largely resident in rural and sub-urban areas. It is a veritable platform designed to capture the large segment of the society that constitute over half of the population. Also, various outlets can provide the microinsurance service to meet the target market. This is where the business of insurance is taken to the grassroots. Just like what obtains in microfinance banking, service outlets are made available to customers in their locality. Last line The major objective of this insurance arrangement is to ensure insurance coverage for the uncovered. That is, to expand the insurance market beyond the currently very limited reach, to the middle market and down to the poor. Also very important is the issue of regulation. Despite the urgent need to proliferate the insurance market to reach out to the grassroots and improve penetration rates, the practice of this business must be provided according to generally accepted insurance practice. It must be in conformity with global best practice to ensure the protection of all stakeholders.