The last-minute shift in the date of the 2019 general elections brought to fore the need for the country’s electoral umpire to consider electronic voting in subsequent elections. Industry analysts see this as the best way to save Nigerians the harrowing experience of travelling far distances to exercise their franchise. SAMSON AKINTARO reports  The full cost of the shift in the presidential and National Assembly elections earlier billed for February 16 may not be adequately evaluated, but it is sure that Nigeria and Nigerians had lost billions, if not trillions of naira to the sudden change that was blamed on logistics. This again echoed calls for full deployment of technologies for polls in the country. For one, with e-voting, the horde of Nigerians that had to leave their bases to travel several kilometres with attendant dangers, just to cast their votes, would not have gone through such stress. E-voting, which is an election system that allows a voter to record his or her secure and secret ballot electronically, reduces election costs and increases civic participation by making voting process more convenient. But while Nigeria has for several years mulled this innovative way of balloting that ensures transparency and efficient polling, it has only gone as far as electronic accreditation through the use of card reader.  Leveraging online population One of the major challenges of elections in Nigeria is voter apathy. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s summary of results for the 2015 elections, the number of votes cast, 29.4 million, was less than half the registered voters, which was 67.4 million.
Interestingly, as at December 2018, the number of mobile Internet subscribers stood at 111.6 million, an indication that many Nigerians, even more than the number of registered voters for the 2019 elections, are already online. Analysts see this as a huge opportunity to address the problem of voter apathy. According to them, the credibility of elections depends primarily on a transparent voting process and e-voting would appeal to young and middle-aged voters because of their comfort with technology, significantly reducing voter apathy with a viable, transparent process.
Besides, the issues of underage voting, ballots lacking names of all candidates, errors in voter registration, lack of privacy, inadequate polling stations, stealing of ballot boxes, intimidation and vote buying would no longer exist with e-voting.   Other benefits For a populous country like Nigeria, electronic voting and counting means that people can get official election results within hours, instead of waiting for days, which again builds trust in the electoral process.
With electronic voting machines, voters can submit their votes and be reasonably confident that their vote will count. Electronic voting machines can also stop voters from common election faults such as picking too many or no candidates, also thereby increasing the general effectiveness of voting. Electronic voting via e-mail also holds the possibility of increasing the ease of voting for citizens who are otherwise geographically isolated from election centres.
Speaking in support of e-voting in Nigeria, a member of House of Representatives, Hon. Douye Diri, recently said that electronic voting is a panacea to electoral challenges in the country, adding that part of Nigeria’s problem was the “manual way’’ of doing things.
According to him, deployment of technology in the transmission of results straight from polling units by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will curb election hooliganism, blood-letting and under-age voting. He said that electronic voting would make elections acceptable to Nigerians and the international community, and commended INEC for the “positive drift towards technology.”   The concerns With all the positives, those who are against e-voting in the country also have their fears, especially, putting the peculiarities of Nigeria into consideration. Those who are cynical about e-voting believe Nigeria is yet to come to terms with using this technology for elections. These positions may have been gathered from INEC’s performance with the voter’s card readers during the last general elections in 2015 when INEC decided to adopt smart card readers for voters’ accreditation. Initially, this innovation was welcomed in many quarters, but it was later met with scepticism and opposition from some civil society organisations and political parties. The performance of card readers during the 2015 elections was not as smooth as Nigerians would have hoped. Issues of malfunction of machines, battery failure and incompetence on the part of the personnel trailed the elections. It was not a resounding success, but it opened the way for discussion on the use of technology in enhancing our elections. Again, the issues of cyber-attacks have emerged as a new threat to information technology systems around the world. INEC’s website was hacked in 2015 by a group that calls itself ‘Nigeria Cyber Army.’ Consequently, there are fears that the use of the Internet for e-voting will expose INEC to further attacks. Indeed, the strongest nations in the world are not immune to cyber-attacks; the accusations by America that Russia meddled in its presidential election that delivered Donald Trump as president brought this to bear.  Kaduna example
However, amidst the fears, last year’s local government election in Kaduna State has been a testament to the fact that Nigeria stands to benefit a lot from e-voting. The council election that was conducted on May 12, 2018, in Kaduna, revived the confidence of many Nigerians that if state governors will act democratically, local government election would be a credible and transparent one, through e-voting. According to Kaduna State government, the electronic voting saved the state N1.7 billion that could have been spent for the printing of ballot papers. What made the election unique was the introduction of electronic voting machines, which many of the voters described as very simple and fast.
At the end, the election was adjudged as the fairest and freest election compared with other local government elections across the country. Unlike the usual results where ruling parties win all the local council elections, the Kaduna State local government election saw the leading opposition party (PDP) win three local government areas. Indeed, voters had also hailed the process as they commended government for introducing e-voting. Chairman of Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission (KAD-SIECOM) Dr. (Mrs.) Saratu Binta Dikko-Audu, while speaking on the adoption of e-voting machines (EVM) for the election, had said: “This technology is wonderful because there is really no chance of manipulating the results as the machine captures what has been inputted and prints it out at the end of the election and once its printed out, data cannot be changed from any end.”   Legal framework Despite the successful trial in Kaduna, e-voting still has a long hurdle to cross for it to be adopted for National Assembly elections. And that is the development of the legal framework to make it acceptable in the electioneering process. However, the National Assembly recently disclosed that it had stepped up activities geared towards redefining the regulatory framework to make elections more transparent and credible in the country. Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary, Hon. Aminu Shehu Shagari, who disclosed this said that following the release of the timetable for the 2019 elections, there was an urgent need for critical stakeholders to put all hands on deck to support the process.
He said that so far, stakeholders have identified many challenges militating against free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria, adding that the National Assembly would do anything within its powers to introduce legislative reforms that could address the situation. He said that the National Assembly had not moved as fast as it should on issues such as electronic voting, Diaspora voting and punishment for electoral offences because they were thorny issues that required a lot of consensus building to extract the commitment of stakeholders. “Electronic voting is a welcome development but we have to ensure that it is done transparently for it to be credible. It must not only be transparent but must be seen to be transparent by everyone. “You know the problem we had last time; it was just that the Constitution then did not recognise electronic voting. Of course, the then Chairman of INEC, Prof. Attahiru Jega, tried to be very innovative and that was how he came up with the card reader to do the accreditation, but not the actual voting, so that he does not contravene the law and I am sure it has gone a long way in trying to minimise the incidents of vote rigging to the barest minimum,” he said.   Last line
With billions of naira already wasted as a result of the shift in date of the 2019 polls, it is still not certain that as many that had embarked on patriotic journey to different locations to cast their votes would be willing to do that again come Saturday February 23. However, the Presidency, National Assembly and the electoral umpire must all work together to avoid these needless wastes by planning towards e-voting for the 2023 elections and the plans must start now.