The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  declared that the commission was 98 per cent ready for the presidential and National Assembly elections in the State. INEC also disclosed that’s sensitive materials have been dispatched to the Registration Area Centres (RACs) in the  eight local government areas of the state. Head, department of INEC voters education and publicity, Mr Wilfred Ifogah, told journalists that the commission is 98 per cent ready for the presidential and national assembly polls. Ifogah disclosed that all non-sensitive materials were distributed from  Wednesday to the different registration area centres in the state. He said: “Movement of non-sensitive materials and sensitive materials to area offices of INEC in the state has been done; we started with non-sensitive ones on Wednesday and it continued until Thursday. “For the riverine areas it was on hold because of the terrain, so,  today which is Friday, a day before elections, the distributions of sensitive materials to the coastal communities has been completed. “So, as you can see some of the buses moving the materials to the jetty and security operatives are on ground to ensure that all the materials are were secured. “INEC is good to go, the security men are ready and we have about 10, 482 adhoc staff to perform the national duty.”   Ifogah sated. Director of National Orientation Agency (NOA) in Bayelsa state,     Mr Ide Oduasekpor, urges politicians to steer clear of sponsoring thugs during the elections. He said: “Do not go to the polling units with gun but go with your PVCs; police will not disturb anyone unless you go with the intention to cause violence. lYakubu: We’ve achieved 98% configuration of Card Readers The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has stated that electoral offenders in the forthcoming elections would be punished according to the extant law. This is a departure from the position of President Muhammadu Buhari who had ordered the military and police to… In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disagreed with President Muhammadu Buhari on how to punish electoral offenders. President Buhari had, at the caucus meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday, said he had directed security agencies to shoot anybody caught carrying ballot boxes. But INEC Chairman, Prof.… In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Kano State says it will commence distribution of sensitive materials across the 44 local government areas of the state on Wednesday. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state Riskuwa Arab-Shehu disclosed this to newsmen on Tuesday in Kano. He said the distribution… In "News Around Nigeria"