 ‘Bridging the Cultural Divide’, an exhibition of artworks which cut across the six geo-political zones of Nigeria ended yesterday, spawning interest and commendation for the initiative.
Organised by the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture in collaboration with the Society of Nigerian Artists (SNA), Lagos State Chapter, the exhibition opened penultimate Friday.
According to the organisers, the exhibition seeks to promote cultural integration, understanding, peaceful coexistence, as well as spotlight the cosmopolitan nature of Lagos.
The exhibition is particularly significant, given the rarity of direct involvement by state governments in promoting artists through art exhibitions.
He said: “Bridging the Cultural Divide, as the title chosen for the exhibition of artworks by the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture, could not have come at a better time than this season of heralding the New Year.
“Surely, it takes an exhibition of this nature and magnitude to actually bridge the cultural divide in our country with its about 350 diverse cultures and ethnic nationalities.
“Commencing the year with an exhibition of artworks which cuts across the six geo-political zones of our country, goes to spotlight the cosmopolitan nature of Lagos State, of which cosmopolitanism has given the state its rightful place of prominence amongst other states of our country.
“With the success of this exhibition, the Council for Arts and Culture would be showcasing its desire to become a centre of relevance and a relevant force in complimenting private sector stakeholders, in promoting Nigerian artworks, artists and culture to the world, given the quality of artworks on display which cuts across the length and breadth of our country.
“I am, therefore, in conclusion, calling on all collectors to patronize the artworks on display, while calling young and elderly artists, to savour, enjoy and learn one or two new things in the drafting composition, concept and styles of the exhibited works.”
Works on display include: ‘Birds and other Animals’, Plastocast relief, 89 x 112cm, 1987, by Prof. Bruce Onobrakpeya; ‘Ola’, Bronze, 19” x 13”, 1963, by Prof. Abayomi Barber; ‘The Maid’, Mixed Media, 101 x 105 cm, 2011, by Kolade Oshinowo; ‘Feminine Beauty’, Acrylic on Canvas, 53.5 x 47 inches, 2001, by Chief (Mrs) Nike Okundaye; ‘Grandpa’s Blessing’, Oil on Canvas, 3ft x 4ft, 2017, by Pa Timothy Fasuyi; ‘Old Wine in New Keg’, Welded Metal, 2017, by Odogwu Eze Fidelis.
Others are ‘Calabar Carnival Colour’, Oil on Canvas, 3 x 4ft, by Bunmi Lasaki; ‘The Quest’, Pastel on Paper, 20 x 24 inches, by Olojo Kosoko; ‘Reflection’, Acrylic on Canvas, 3ft x 4ft, by Okorodafe Ejovwokeoghene; ‘The Philosopher and his Postulations’, Graphite on paper, 16” x 15”, 1985, by Dr. Kunle Adeyemi; ‘Maidens Unveiled’, Acrylic on Canvas, 4 by 4 ft, 2017, by Omoighe Titilayo.
Commenting on the exhibition, Onobrakpeya, who is undoubtedly one of the most documented and most decorated Nigerian artists, commended the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture for the decision to engage the Society of Nigerian Artists, Lagos State Chapter.
He said: “With this epoch making exhibition, tagged: ‘Bridging the Cultural Divide’, it is my pleasure to be part of this progressive development between SNA Lagos and the State Art Council. I see this as a positive step towards development of arts and culture tourism in the state and the country at large.”
Earlier, renowned art patron, Engr. Yemisi Shyllon, had also commended the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture and the SNA, for bridging the gap between artists and government.
“We had a summit sometime ago where I advised that artists should try to bridge the gap. I am very happy for this exhibition. The country is capable of generating $60 billion from arts, culture and tourism. Artists are very important,” Shylon said.
He added that the Lagos State Government has been doing so much for the art, stressing that: “I want to give kudos to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. He has supported the art so much. Lagos State is doing what is right. Artists are very important.”
Also speaking, renowned artist, Kolade Oshinowo, commended Ambode for his support for the art.
“Ambode is someone who has shown that he is genuinely interested in art,” he said.