Stakeholders including members of the international community have continued to express concern on the need for the forthcoming elections in Nigeria to be free, fair and credible. For members of the global community, the success of the political process in Nigeria is too critical to fail. The reason is obvious. As Africa’s largest economy, with a projected population of around 200 million, the nation’s sheer size and economy is important for West Africa, Africa and the rest of the world.  In the words of Kofi Annan, former Secretary General of the United Nations (UN), when elections are seen as mere technical exercise, enabling a person or group to accede to or remain in power in an otherwise wholly undemocratic context, they quickly become a source of disillusionment and violence.  Although, elections remain the indispensable tools for democracy necessary to promote stability and facilitate the transfer of power, this process can becomes divisive if not handled professionally, transparently and with integrity. No election can ever be perfect, not even in the advanced or stable democracies, but people desire elections in their countries including Nigeria to be free, fair and credible.  Since the flag off of the 2019 electioneering campaigns in the country, I have watched with keen interest very disturbing comments emanating from leaders of the two dominant parties bordering on increasing fears of insecurity. Both the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have at different times accused one another of stock piling arms and equipping young abled persons with the intention of rigging the election. As alleged by the PDP, the administration of President Buhari aside this, is also mapping out strategies to deploy institutions of state such as the military and police to intimidate voters during the exercise.  While the government and the ruling party has since denied the allegations, it has on its part accused the main opposition party PDP, of romancing with foreign powers and some of the develop countries to influence the outcome of the 2019 elections. In whatever manner the veracity of these allegations play out during the election, it is crucial for stakeholders to understand that human life is sacred and must not be allowed to waste for mere selfish political purposes.  The nation’s political atmosphere is currently charged with activities of major actors with less than seven days to the 2019 polls. The key contenders in the process, incumbent President Buhari who is candidate of the APC, and former Vice President and presidential candidate of the PDP Alhaji Atiku Abubakar have been traversing the length and breath of Nigeria mobilizing support from the electorates ahead of the polls.  When President Buhari met with traditional rulers in Benue valley on Wednesday on the sidelines of his electioneering campaign ahead of Saturday’s presidential elections, the Tiv paramount ruler, Ochivirigh, Bergha u Tiv, Professor James Ayatse called the President’s attention to the general fears surrounding the forthcoming elections in his domain.  In Benue State, the fury accusation by major party stakeholders appears similar to the narrative at the national level. The Senator representing Benue North West senatorial district in the National Assembly Senator George Akume of the APC has since accused the Benue State governor Samuel Ortom who is also the governorship candidate of the PDP of arming a militia group ‘Livestock Guard’ with sophisticated weapons with the intentions to rig elections.  Akume as the leader of the APC in Benue State wants the people to vote in Barrister Emmanuel Jime as the next governor and has been campaigning vigorously for him. Jime is perceived as an anointed candidate of some powers in Aso Rock who is expected as being alleged, to be used for clandestine political agenda in the state if he emerges victorious in the March 2 governorship polls.  PDP supporters in the state have also alleged that Akume and APC stalwarts in Benue are lobbying hard to get maximum support from the presidency in both the provision of Army and Police to enable them intimidate voters and rig the forthcoming elections in favour of their candidates.
As he spoke at the campaign rally ground, Senator Akume re-echoed his earlier position of accusations against the Benue State governor in what looked like a sentiment weeping manner. According to him: “Benue yearns for free and fair elections, but what we have as our major problem in Benue State is the complete militarization of the state by the government.”  “They have militia, the most notorious is Livestock Guards; they carry assorted weapons, they carry AK 47. They have been killing, last Friday we were on our way for a rally in the headquarters of the governor’s local government in Gbajimba and as we got close, they started firing on us. One person was killed, many were injured”.  “Nobody is talking about federal might, we are fully prepared for the elections and we want security to come and do our elections,” Akume stressed. It was a fierce war of words between the two party leaders when the APC campaign train visited the state.
Governor Ortom did not waste time in debunking the claims by Senator Akume. The Benue State governor in fact addressed a press conference to counter the allegations by the APC chieftain. As far as governor Ortom is concerned, Akume is only trying to give him a bad name, so that he could be hanged by federal might.  This is what Ortom told reporters in Makurdi: “Have you ever seen any Livestock Guard with one weapon? It is Akume that is arming people.”
“You know, I know the trick he is trying to play. He is playing Mr. President so that they will allow him the opportunity to have security men to come and rig the election. That is all that he is doing and you heard what Mr. President said in reply to his demand that he will supply security to ensure a free and fair election,” said Ortom.  The Benue State governor continued that “Akume is talking of Federal might but I am not threatened about that. Federal might will not vote for elections in Benue, it is the people that will vote. If he is talking about federal then I have state might, which is the people,” he noted.  Governor Ortom had earlier raised similar concerns when he led the President to meet with the traditional rulers before proceeding to the campaign rally venue. Inside the new banquet hall of the Benue People’s House, where President Buhari interacted with the monarchs, the governor pointed out to the President that a few elements (apparently referring to Akume) were using his name to intimidate the people of the state about federal might, all with the view to whipping up sensitive to secure security support to rig elections.  As a royal father, the Tor Tiv ceased to the opportunity of the event to plead with President Buhari to use his exalted office in providing a level playing field for his wards to exercise their civic rights peacefully. According to the Tor Tiv, the talk about federal, state might has become wild spread in the state raising fears that may create voter apathy.  This what the paramount ruler told President Buhari: “We want peaceful conduct of elections in Benue. We are advocates of peaceful elections. And following your very good example sir, I want you to appeal to our politicians in Benue State, to appeal to your party members and other party members, the other political parties.  “We here a lot and we are getting disturbed about federal might, about state might. We want to appeal that all these mights should be withdrawn so that we have a level playing ground and we have a peaceful election in Benue. Because, that is what our people need.  “As traditional rulers, we live with these people, we suffer the pains when people get killed, they come back to us. They come to cry to us. The politicians, their own target is to win elections, sometimes, is caution and restraint is not exercised, they may win the elections but leave us with pains. So, we want to appeal to you that you use your exalted office and influence to ensure that we have a very peaceful election in Benue State, not only in Benue State but the entire Nigeria,” Ayatse noted.  The expectations are that government will heed to the call by these critical stakeholders in Benue and ensure the provision of a peaceful atmosphere for the conduct of the election in the state and other parts of the country. Like former President Goodluck Jonathan once noted, no politician’s ambition is worth the blood of any Nigerian. Nigeria can avert the doomsday prophecies of violence in the forthcoming general elections, if the Independent National Electoral Commisdion (INEC) conducts the elections in strict compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act. Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Public Procurement, Sen. Andrew Uchendu (APC/Rivers East) stated this while reacting to… In "News" Yakubu: We don't sell, buy votes •Saraki, Dogara warn against malpractices   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, said that it had introduced a new measure on ballot paper handling at polling units to check vote buying in the 2019 general elections. The Chairman of the Commission, Prof. Mahmood… In "Politics" There are indications of violence ahead of tomorrow’s supplementary election to conclude the Osun State governorship poll as a group of thugs, yesterday, destroyed the house of a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ifon-osun community, Alhaji Olarinde Ashifat. The armed thugs were said to have invaded the… In "Politics"