Ahead of the presidential election holding this weekend, BIYI ADEGOROYE, in this analysis examines whether the current spate of endorsements will sway voters’ position in determining who occupies Aso Rock Villa come May 29  The spate of endorsements have taken an upward spiral in the past few days less than a week to the presidential election, as elders from the geo-political zones and former generals joined the bandwagon of pitching their tents with each of the prominent candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Though 69,720,350 voters registered in the 2015 elections, out of which less than 30 million voted, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said the total number of registered voters for the 2019 elections is 84, 271,832.  More prominently, the electoral chances of the PDP presidential flag bearer, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar received a fillip as regional leaders and socio-cultural groups from the six regional zones of the country adopted him as their consensus candidate for the 2019 presidential elections. Miyyeti Allah Kautal Hore from the North-East also endorsed him.  Speaking on the platform of the Summit of Nigerian Leaders and Elders, with the theme, “Elections: The Search for Credible Free and Fair Elections,” the group said Atiku possessed the intelligence, capability and knowledge to lead the nation. The associations are the pan-Yoruba group, Afenifere; Northern Elders Forum; Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Pan-Niger Delta Forum and the Middle Belt Forum. Leaders of the associations including Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, Prof. Ango Abdullahi, Chief Edwin Clark, Tanko Yakassai and Dr. Bitrus Pogu, therefore, asked Nigerians to vote for the PDP Presidential candidate on February 16. The President-General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who spoke for the Igbo nation, said the nation was facing “a momentous election that would determine the growth trajectory of the country in the next four years. To him, President Buhari had further widened the ethnic cleavages in the country thus jeopardising national security, citing the banditry in parts of Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto and the insurgency in Borno State. Stressing that Nigeria was at the edge of the precipice, the Igbo leader defended the choice of Atiku, explaining that he had presented how he would carry out the restructuring of the country.
He said: “Though APC (All Progressives Congress) set up a committee on restructuring chaired by the Kaduna State governor which presented their recommendations on power devolution, crude oil exploration and other great ideas, nothing has been heard about it till today.  “There was no bill to the National Assembly to commence the process of restructuring the country. In this order, only Atiku, Bukola Saraki, Donald Duke and Kingsley Moghalu presented how they would implement their restructuring agenda. So, Ohanaeze has chosen Atiku Abubakar as its candidate.” Also, Afenifere leader, Adebanjo said the summit was only concerned about the unity of the country which he said Atiku’s election would demonstrate, arguing that the PDP Presidential candidate believed in restructuring the country having written and delivered several papers on it. Prof. Ango Abdulahi, the President of NEF revealed that his association had earlier announced that it would not support any northern politician that failed to perform in office, hence their opposition to Buhari whose election they massively endorsed and worked for in 2015. Abdullahi said the forum presented a document on governance to the President shortly after he came to power, noting that the government jettisoned the blueprint. Before arriving at the decision, he said, the group had interviewed all the presidential and came to the conclusion that Atiku was the suitable choice. Unlike the Arewa Consultative Forum, which endorsed Buhari in 2015, Abdulahi said this time, it has pitched its tent with PDP candidate “based on our assessment, it was very clear the country requires a new leadership and that is why the Northern Elders Forum agreed that that leader is Atiku Abubakar.” A day after Atiku’s endorsement, some retired military officers joined the fray and threw their weight behind President Buhari’s second term bid. Top among them were a former Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Jubril Ayinla (rtd); 17 former Military Administrators; two Lieutenant Generals; 13 Major Generals; two Rear Admirals; eight Air Vice-Marshals; 12 Brigadier Generals; eight Navy Commodores; and nine Air Commodores. Marwa, who spoke after the group visited the President, said the retired officers were impressed by Buhari’s achievements. Marwa said: “As an officer and a gentleman, his (Buhari’s) word is his bond. However, the endorsements did not come without some dissensions in some parts of the country. For instance, one of Afenifere leaders, Chief Ayo Fasanmi chose to endorse President Buhari, and he indeed donned the APC regalia last Tuesday in Ado Ekiti where he was presented with the broom- the symbol for the APC. Similarly, the endorsement of Atiku by Ohanaeze angered the Anambra State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano and the group’s General Secretary, Uche Okwukwu, both of whom said it was ill-motivated. On its sequel was a demonstration by some Igbo youths against the endorsement. But, Oseloka Obaze, the chairman of Atiku/Obi Campaign Council for the presidential election in Anambra State berated those who kicked against the endorsement, stating that the critics lacked political courage, because the Chief Nwodo-led Ohanaeze took the decision after great deliberations
Obaze, who was PDP’s governor    ship candidate in the last election in Anambras said: “The Ime-Obi, the policy making arm of Ohanaeze endorsed the PDP ticket for what it stands for including restructuring, national unity and better protection of interest of the people it represents.”  Of great importance is that out of the over 84,004,084 votes being scrambled for by the gladiators in the elections, Lagos State accounted for 6, 570,291 million while Kano has 5, 457,747 million voters. The North- West has the highest number of registered voters with over 20.2 million, followed by the South -West with 16.3 million voters. The South-East has the least with slightly over 10 million voters; North-East recorded 11.3 million; North Central, 13.4 million; and South-South, 12.9 million. Further analysis showed that male registrants was 44, 405,439 million while female accounted for 39, 598,645 million voters. These are the expected votes the regional leaders seek to influence. But what impact can the various groups make in the mobilization of votes for either Buhari or Atiku in the elections? President Muhammadu Buhari’s Campaign Organisation, Festus Keyamo said Atiku’s endorsement by Afenifere, Ohaneze Ndigbo and others were of no consequence, stating that the groups have no influence on voters.  “We want to alert Nigerians to be firm and unwavering in their resolve not to go back to the vomit which they spewed forth in the shape of PDP in 2015…. We are confident that in a few days’ time, the PDP will be put where it rightly belongs by the good people of Nigeria – the dustbin of history.
“Firstly, as regards the endorsements by the above-named socio-cultural groups, there is no fraud bigger than that of known PDP members and/or hardened PDP sympathizers wearing the apparel of socio-cultural groups, purporting to represent entire regions and endorsing their own political party. “The impression given through these endorsements that PDP is expanding its support base is also an attempt to deceive Nigerians because these are groups that supported PDP in 2015 and lost the election along with PDP. Therefore, their excuse that they are supporting Alhaji Atiku Abubakar because of the bogey called ‘restructuring’ is nothing but a subterfuge. In any case, Ohaneze had said in its earlier release that the first reason they are endorsing Atiku Abubakar is that his running mate is an Ibo man,” he said.  To him, President Buhari has managed “to navigate his way directly to the masses that they purport to represent and is ensuring that the dividends of democracy reach the people directly. Their annoyance is that they have been eliminated as middlemen. That is why the bond between the masses and President Muhammadu Buhari continue to grow on a daily basis.”  But Mr. Yinka Odumakin, Spokesman of Afenifere, who gave the philosophy behind the endorsement, said it was borne of the need to rescue Nigeria from the brink of disintegration. “Nigeria is in terminal crisis under this Buhari’s administration as a result of his leadership style. Nigeria is at the precipice and it must be saved from it,” he said. According to him, the endorsement was not for Buhari per say, but for his programmes. “It was designed to save the country from disintegration.” On the claims that the socio-cultural groups have no political followership, he said: “The occasion our marked a great significance milestone in the history of Nigeria and I can tell you that if they said we are of no significance, they should leave us alone and wait till February 16.”  He said these were the same socio-cultural groups that endorsed Chief MKO Abiola in the 193 elections, adding: “If all these socio-cultural groups, Ohanaeze, PANDEF, Afenifere, Northern Elders’ Forum and the Middle Belt Forum who have given their followers a great wave as to the direction to vote across the country on February 16, are of no political influence, then we will see.”  Mr. Kazeem Afegbua, Spokesman of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council, however, said the endorsements are a huge moral and electoral booster the Atiku Presidency. “Hearing from those formidable socio-cultural and political groups is like hearing from Nigerians across the socio-economic and political divides in the country. It reinforces unity and national cohesion. It simplifies the job which the Atiku presidency will urgently tackle or undertake when he gets into office, that is, to unite the country and create regional blocs to articulate geopolitical interest in line with his restructuring policy agenda.  “It is about time for us to move away from this regime of nepotism, cronyism and selective amnesia to a regime that will urgently put in place a government of national unity to create a symbiotic relationship that is based on mutual understanding and tolerance. We need to urgently commence the process of repairing broken bridges of understanding and sustain our creed of unity in diversity. We remain eternally grateful to these groups for being on the side of the people in our shared commitment to building an enduring democracy.”  On the claims by Keyamo and the APC that the endorsements were of no consequence, Afegbua said: “It also exposes the contradiction of the Buhari group. While they celebrated the supposed endorsement of 71 retired and fatigued generals out of several thousands of retired generals, they tried to downplay the remarkable endorsement of all the groups of the six geopolitical zones. How pitiable.”  “Keyamo needs serious rehabilitation and rescue for cesspit of intolerance that he plunged himself. Don’t forget that he claims to be an activist nurtured by the Afenifere group when it was convenient for him to ride on their back to limelight.  “Having become victim of President Buhari’s under-employment, he needs to make some noise to justify his pay. When a supposed Senior Advocate of Nigeria decided to drop the silk to take up the job of Mass Communication professionals, you will readily understand the level of degeneracy of the Buhari under-performing government.  “These socio-political groups were the      platforms used to fight for democracy and democratic governance. The actors have paid their dues in ensuring the unity of the country. They have become over the years, the voice of the voiceless.  They have confronted conscienceless power in the past and are presently confronting another conscienceless power that has crumbled the psyche of the ordinary folks out there. It is rather unfortunate that Keyamo, rather than speak to the rationale for the deserved endorsement, decided to apply disrespect.”  On whether the endorsements will translate to votes, Afegbua said: “The relevance of these socio-political groups cannot be over-emphasised especially given their long history of being on the side of the masses and the generality of the people in their respective zones.  The Afenifere Group is formidable in the South-West. The Middle-Belt Forum is the umbilical cord of the North Central zone, the Northern Elders Forum is the nucleus of the Northern zones, the PANDEF is the conscience of the Niger-Delta at present.  “Hence you cannot undermine their influence when it comes to political mobilisation. It is obvious that Atiku is winning this election because the endorsement further reinforces the referendum of Nigerians against poverty, hunger, killings, deprivation and polarisation of the country along ethnic and religious lines.” Some pundits may have given the election to Buhari, but from all indications, the latest endorsement which is heavy on the side of Atiku, it has been canvassed is a possible game changer.  How this and the war of words will play out remain to be seen in the next weeks.    