The World Health Organisation (WHO) estimates that counterfeits, including fake drugs, account for between 15 per cent and 30 per cent overall products in developing countries. This report highlights how consumers of drugs navigate the difficult terrain in the world of counterfeiting to avoid the impact of deadly pharmaceuticals. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI and ESTHER NWAOBILOR report  Drugs are medicines with physiological effects on humans especially when used to treat illness, relieve a symptom or modify a chemical process in the body for specific purpose. Achieving these targeted objectives will however be based on the condition that the said medicines are genuine and wholesome. Another condition to meet the purpose of medicines is that the quality of the medication has not depreciated, occasioned by poor storage, expiration of the drug, among others.  Based on the sad experiences of some consumers of medicines in this country, it is no longer news that unscrupulous citizens now produce fake drugs in their homes and elsewhere and have illegal channels of distributing same to unsuspecting retailers and consumers. Besides, the media is inundated with stories of counterfeit and unwholesome medicines, which the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) destroys publicly from time to time.  According to data issued by the Director General of NAFDAC, Prof. Christiana Mojisola Adeyeye, in 2018, NAFDAC carried out four fake food and drug destruction exercises. The total products worth N4, 7 billion were destroyed in Abuja on March 8, (N80,000,000.00); Shagamu, Ogun State on June 29 (N3,508,550,762.00); Kaduna in Kaduna State on July 18 (N650,000,000.00); and in Gombe, Gombe State on August 16 (N464,731,552.00). With these destruction exercises taking place in the public domain, the issue of counterfeit medications is not a secret. Most Nigerians are therefore aware that their chances of buying fake medicines within their communities are high. Based on this development, the New Telegraph went to down to find out what safeguards individuals adopt when purchasing needed drugs in their environment as strategies to prevent procuring deadly medicines in exchange for their hard earned money. A consumer of medicine in Lagos, Mr. Ogunbiyi Alade said whenever he needed some medications, his first step was to go to a pharmacy with the Rx neon sign. “Count me out of those getting drugs from patent-medicine stores popularly known as ‘chemists.’ He reasoned that without formal training on pharmaceuticals ‘chemists’ were mere business men buying and selling drugs. Alade stressed that any pharmacy he buys from must have the Rx sign, which is a symbol from community pharmacists that guarantees sale of quality medicine products, excellent professional pharmaceutical care and services. Most pharmacies displaying this neon sign are usually owned and operated by trained pharmacists. Sadly, some medicine stores operated by untrained personnel, have begun to put up fake Rx neon signs, further jeopardising this system of guaranteeing quality medications. According to Alade, even a trained pharmacist may not know that a particular drug is fake. “Fake drugs are not about best before manufacturing date. All information about the manufacturing and expiry date can be intact, yet the drug will still be fake.” I have met a doctor who told me that they (doctors) prescribe drugs for a patient and at the end of the day, It doesn’t work because the drug is fake. Relating her experience, Mrs Toyin Cooker, another consumer of medicine and an accountant who is resident in Lagos, said “Whenever I buy a capsule, I press the cap to know if it’s soft or thick; once the cap used in covering is thick, I know it’s fake because capsules are soft.” She added, “I also don’t dispose the bottles and packs of drugs when I am done because I use it to compare the next one to be sure it is not fake.” A fake or counterfeit medication or a counterfeit drug is a medication or pharmaceutical product, which is produced and sold with the intent to deceptively represent its origin, authenticity or effectiveness. A counterfeit drug may contain inappropriate quantities of active ingredients, or none, may be improperly processed within the body (e.g., absorption by the body), may contain ingredients that are not on the label (which may or may not be harmful), or may be supplied with inaccurate or fake packaging and labelling. Counterfeit medicines in Nigeria reduced from 40 per cent in 2001 to 16.7 per cent in 2005, according to the findings of a survey by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control NAFDAC and the World Health Orgaisation (WHO). Among the factors fuelling the high prevalence of fake medicines in the country are the chaotic open drug markets, porous borders warranting illegal importation of counterfeit drugs, among others. It has been shown that the circulation and distribution of substandard medicines in Nigeria’s a growing menace. Counterfeit medicines and medical devices appear everywhere. Most seriously affected is Africa, especially with anti-malarial medication, but the legitimate supply chains in developing and industrialised countries are also compromised. The reports “The Globalisation of Crime and “Transnational Organised Crime in West Africa published by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) show that in 2013, up to 73 per cent of the evaluated anti-malarial medication in Nigeria was substandard.  While the WHO estimates that counterfeits account for between 15 per cent to 30 per cent overall in developing countries, in industrialised countries, the figure is still around one per cent in the legitimate supply chain. An individual who receives a fake medicine may risk a number of dangerous health consequences because the drug may contain a different quantity of the original active ingredient, totally different active ingredients, toxic ingredients, may bear forged manufacturer’s data on the packaging and may have been completely repackaged. Similarly, counterfeit medications may have been produced under conditions that do not conform with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) and not have been transported and stored properly. The bottom line however is that such drugs, when used may endanger lives of consumers.  A former National Chairman of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), Dr. Albert Alkali said, an individual that was exposed to fake medicines may experience unexpected side effects, allergic reactions, or a worsening of a medical condition. Even worse, counterfeit medicines can kill, he added. According to a public health safety awareness material on fake medications issued by Pfizer Worldwide Biopharcaceutical Businesses, Pfizer Specialities Limited and Pfizer Laboratories, “Counterfeit medicine is a major cause of death and disability “Many patients have lost their lives as a result of counterfeit medicines.” The advisory urged those buying medicines to take a closer look at the        drugs they were buying because the said medications could be fake.  On where fake medicines may be found, the trio stated that they could be found mostly in illegitimate outlets, and therefore could be found in a convenient store, open market places, unregistered pharmacy, unregistered patent medicine store, unregistered hospital, medical stores and occasionally in legitimate channels such as registered facilities.  To tackle the circulation and sales of substandard, spurious and fake medicines, the Safe Medicines Foundation (SMF) was launched in Lagos in January.  According to the founding fathers of the initiative, Dr. Ahmed Yakasai, immediate past president of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Dr. Ifeanyi Okechukwu, Chief  Executive Officer (CEO) of Grace Group, and Dr. Chimezie Anyakora, the Chief of Party, Promoting the Quality of Medicine Program, USP in Nigeria, SMF aims to become the trusted go-to resource that could help consumers, healthcare professionals, law enforcement agencies, policy makers and the government navigate the increasing complex and dangerous world of complex and falsified medicines.  Its immediate goals are to build alliance with all stakeholders engaged in the medicines supply chain; make MSF dedicated to patient safety, quality medicines and healthcare; and make SMF patient-centred with support from government and stakeholders. During the launch of SMFr, Yakasai lamented: “It really hurts to see fake or substandard and falsified products circulating in our country maiming innocent citizens.  “Every day, our children are killed, our pregnant women are murdered, our elders are giving up the ghost and our hardworking men and women are dying because of lack of access to safe medicines.”  In line with the position of Yakasai, Anyakora said fake medicines were well understood to negatively affect the credibility of public health systems around the globe, as they often were ineffective, promoting drug resistance, and causing severe illness and even death.  President of Representatives of Overseas Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (NIROPHARM), Femi Shoremekun said NIROPHARM was supporting the Federal Government in its new drive to put in place measures to reduce access to drugs being abused in the country.  He said, “The proper way was for drugs to be managed and kept in a coordinated approach to ensure that access to them was reduced to the barest minimum so that they would not be abused.  While admitting that Nigeria did not have a coordinated drug distribution system yet, Soremekun stressed that the problem of the current chaotic drug distribution system would be effectively addressed when the National Drugs Distribution Guideline (NDDG) was implemented; it would reduce some of the gaps currently warranting the availability of counterfeit medicines in the country.  