In the next few days, Nigerians will cast the first ballot in this year’s general elections. BIYI ADEGOROYE and ONYEKACHI EZE examine the preparedness of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the elections, arguing that the future of Nigeria depends on the electoral body’s impartiality  The stakeholders’ meeting last Thursday was to reassure Nigerians of the preparedness of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the conduct of the general elections. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said that the commission does not intend to postpone elections in any state, even when there is a court order.  “If two courts make a pronouncement on a matter, we go by the latest in time. In the case of one of the judgments, the two judgments came on the same day; the commission has to take a decision.  “My assurance to stakeholders and Nigerians is that INEC will always obey court order. The next question we are going to ask is that what if the court order comes close to election, will INEC postpone elections?  “No. INEC does not intend to postpone any election. We will operate based on the order that we received but the commission has also made contingency plan in case some of the orders come close to the elections.
“We should be able to recover and conduct elections as scheduled,” he said.  At a meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) last Friday, Prof. Yakubu also re-emphasised the readiness of the commission for the elections. He said the meeting was to review final preparations for the elections.
“Coming just a week to the general elections, this meeting is convened essentially in order to have a final review of preparations.  “At this meeting, we will undertake a comprehensive review of our preparations. Overall, the commission is ready for the elections. Nevertheless, we are ever ready to fine-tune processes and procedures in order to serve Nigerians better,” he said.  Nigerians will this Saturday, go to the polls to elect their president and members of the National Assembly. Two weeks later, on March 2, they are expected to cast their votes for the governorship and members of state House of Assembly of their choice.
For those living in Abuja, Nigeria’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT), it will also be an opportunity to elect the chairmen and councilors in the six Area Councils.  INEC said 73 presidential, 1, 066 governorship election, 1, 848 senatorial, 4, 635 House of Representatives, 14,583 State Assembly, 105 chairmanship and 701 councillorship candidates, are contesting the elections.  But despite this figure, which is the highest in the history of election contest in Nigeria, Festus Okoye, INEC National Commissioner in charge of Information and Voter Education, a day earlier, said the commission is ready for the polls.  Okoye, who spoke at a forum with journalists, disclosed: “different zonal stores and state and local government offices of the commission are presently taking delivery of non-sensitive materials for the conduct of the 2019 elections.  “The Central Bank of Nigeria on the other hand, is taking delivery of sensitive materials for the conduct of the elections. Most of the Resident Electoral Commissioners have concluded the training of various categories of ad hoc staff and are putting finishing touches to other processes.”  The conduct of the elections would be guided by the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended, since President Muhammadu Buhari refused assent to the 2018 Electoral Act Bill passed by the National Assembly.  In addition, the commission will also rely on its own developed Regulations and Guidelines, which was released on January 12, for the conduct of the elections.  Unlike previous general elections, INEC said it would adopt the continuous accreditation and voting system (CAVS) procedures, used in off-season elections. Okoye explained that the decision was arrived out after reviewing the conduct of the previous elections.  According to him, over two million voters duly accredited, failed to turn to cast their votes. Also, physically challenged persons (PCP), pregnant women and the elderly, might not endure the pain to wait till the time the voting would start after accreditation, if CAVS is not implemented.
In accordance with INEC timetable for the election, collection of permanent voter’s cards (PVCs) supposed to end last Friday, February 8.  But at the meeting with RECs, Prof. Yakubu announced an extension by three days, hence the PVCs collection ended on Monday, February 11.  The INEC Chairman said this was based on complaints by Nigerians and call for a review of the current collection process.  “All state offices are hereby directed to review the procedure for the collection of PVCs and dedicate all the staff of the Local Government offices to the collection process. Staff are enjoined to be civil in attending to citizens and to escalate issues that they cannot immediately resolve to their superiors,” he added.  The collection of PVCs also took place from 9am to 6pm daily, including Saturday and Sunday.  “The commission wishes to reassure Nigerians that we will continue to take every necessary step to ensure that no registered voter is disenfranchised on account of non-collection of PVCs.  “Similarly, the commission is taking urgent steps to address complaints of unavailability of the PVCs of some registered voters before the end the deadline for the collection,” Prof. Yakubu assured.  He stated that after the deadline, all uncollected PVCs would be recalled and deposited with the CBN for safe-keeping until after the general elections when the collection of cards and the continuous registration of voters would resume.   Fire at INEC offices  Sadly, a fire incident occurred at the Qua’an Pan Local Government office of the Commission in Plateau State on Saturday, the second of such incidents in less than a week. The first incident occurred in Isiala Ngwa South Local Government office of the Commission in Abia State on Saturday February 2.  Some of the items destroyed in Isiala Ngwa South Local Government include 2979 Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) and other materials. At the Qua’an Pan office, items destroyed include 5987 uncollected Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs), 380 Voting Cubicles, 755 ballot boxes, 14 generators, election forms and official stamps.  The Commission has notified the Acting Inspector General of Police of the emerging trend of the burning of the Local Government Offices of the Commission close to the conduct of the elections and at a period when the Commission is engaged in the massive movement of election related materials nationwide.  But the in view of these developments, the Commission took the following steps: Notified the Inspector General of Police of this new trend and requested that additional security measures be provided to enhance security around INEC Offices and other critical structures of the Commission.  It directed the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Plateau State to open a register for all those in the affected local government area who approached the Commission to collect their PVCs within the specified period. The Commission promised to print the PVCs and make them available for collection in good time before the elections.  It also promised to reprint and deliver the Permanent Voters’ Cards of the affected registered voters in Isiala Ngwa South in Abia State; made temporary arrangements for the relocation of the burnt offices of the Commission and the said offices will be ready for the conduct of the February 16 and March 2, 2019 elections.  The Commission also promised to proceed as planned in the affected local government areas and all the burnt materials will be replaced in good time and as such will not affect the conduct of the elections.  All relevant security agencies have also been requested to arrest and bring to justice, persons or groups involved in the attacks on the offices of the Commission.  However, it is noteworthy that the two fire incidents did not affect the Smart Card Readers that are presently being configured in the respective state offices of the Commission. The Commission, therefore, assured all Nigerians that it will not succumb to the antics of arsonists whose motive might be to create fear in the minds of voters and sabotage the conduct of the 2019 general elections.  The INEC Chairman also addressed the issue of the recruitment of ad hoc staff who will conduct the elections, and listed three categories of ad hoc staff.  “We have the supervisory presiding officers. We have the presiding officers and assistant presiding officers 1, 2 and 3. The third category is the collation and returning officers. Our state offices are responsible for the recruitment and training of the first two categories. We are satisfied with the processes and we are going to do refresher training before the election,” Prof. Yakubu said.  He told the Administrative Board of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria that “in order to protect the sanctity of the electoral process, INEC took a decision in 2011 not to recruit Collation and Returning Officers from among its staff, but from senior lecturers and professorial cadre in our Universities.  “The Chairman of the commission handles this responsibility. He liaises with Vice Chancellors under specific criteria. The Vice  Chancellors submits names directly to the INEC Chairman, the submitted names are further vetted, before we finally engage and post them to the states. It is after we have finished with the process of engagement that we liaise with the RECs who then assign the Collation and Returning Officers to local government areas and constituencies where they are going to work.  “There was a reason why the Commission took that decision. There was a time in the past when, particularly in the recruitment of Collation Officers and most especially the Returning Officers, some people pandered to the wishes of politicians. The Commission then decided to centralise it and involve not only the universities, but also the Academic Staff Union of the Universities (ASUU).  “Since 2015, we have conducted elections into 195 constituencies and not on one occasion did the headquarters ask the RECs to recruit Collation or Returning Officers. This is what the Commission has been doing since 2011. I was surprised when I read the report. However, RECs have the responsibility of recruiting Supervisory Presiding Officers, Presiding Officers and Assistant Presiding Officers, mainly from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members, and when we have a short fall, we make it up with students of tertiary institutions. So, there is no change of policy and there is no new policy. There is no truth in the allegation.”  The stakeholders’ meeting last Thursday had in attendance, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major-General Babagana Monguno, the acting Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu as well as leaders from the European Union and other international electoral assistant agencies.  The two security chiefs gave the state of preparedness of security for the elections. The IGP said every polling unit and voting point would be manned by at least, three police personnel while tactical and mobile police units will have over 24, 000 police personnel on patrol.  He further disclosed that 4, 000 counter-terrorism and 30, 000 regular police officers, would be patrol duty on the election day while squadron and counter-terrorism commanders would escort election materials from the state or zonal offices of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to INEC offices and identified RACs, as well as to distribution centers. Adamu stated that the six Deputy Inspectors General (DIG) and the 24 Assistant Inspectors General (AIG) of Police, would be deployed to the six geo-political zones to beef up security during the elections, and on election day, telephone numbers of Police Public Relation Officers (PPRO) of state police commands, the DIGs and AIGs would be made available to members of public in case of anything untoward. “There will be no armed policemen at the polling units but police personnel guarding INEC offices, CBN and other institutions, will be armed. “Police personnel are to look out for vote buyers and sellers. There will be no erection of tents and canopies close to polling units because this is where vote buying take place. There will be no escort of VIPs by police personnel on election day,” the IG assured. The NSA on his part, assured that no security agency would compromise the general elections. “No security agency will be allowed to be partisan. We are telling our security agencies, don’t allow yourselves to be handcuffed by politicians’ sensibilities. “I want to assure every one of you that we will do our best to protect everybody, and our doors are open to those who want to assist us. We are telling Nigerians with pseudo -security to keep them at bay,” Monguno added. He assured that President Muhammadu Buhari was committed to credible and transparent election, adding that the president has stated that the election is not a do-or-die affair for him. Observers and stakeholders want INEC to be on top of the game and avoid a situation where its officials, including ad hoc ones are above the board in the discharge of their duties, so that the election will not only be free and fair but also transparent.
Already, INEC officials in some states have taken oath to be non-partisan and abide by the laws during the elections. Zonal Publicity Secretary of the PDP in South-West, Mr. Ayo Fadaka said INEC owes the nation and indeed the entire world a duty to conduct free, fair and non-partisan elections, because the survival of the nation depends on it. It is not for nothing that representatives of the European Union and other developed countries are here as monitors. “By convention, INEC is expected to be non-partisan and be free and fair and free from all encumbrances in all ramifications in the conduct of the elections. It is not a tall order for INEC to do. It tried so well in the 2015 elections and delivered the results as expected by the Nigerians.  “INEC should be seen to be progressing not retrogressing in the discharge of its duties; get its logistics right, deployment of its sensitive and non-sensitive materials at the appropriate locations right, and ensure the performance of its ad hoc staff is in full accordance with the goals of the organisation.” Fadaka said the last election conducted in Osun State last year fell short of the standards, a point confirmed by President Buhari. “We can readily recall that the Osun State Governorship election which President Muhammadu Buhari recently referred to as a remotely controlled election was a bad product of INEC, as that election, in my opinion, was tailored to ensure that the APC won the election. Nigerians have seen through this dishonesty and are not ready to tolerate another of such awful performance from INEC. To that extent, we are calling on the electoral body to brace-up on these elections because the peace and continuity of Nigerian rests squarely on its non-partisan performance in the conduct of these elections.” Also, the Executive Director of the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, (SERAP) Barrister Tokunbo Mumuni said INEC should be above board in these elections like Caesar’s wife. “They should not pander to the whim and caprices of any of the parties- either the one in power or in the opposition. They should operate in such a professional way and in conformity with the laws of the land.” He recalled that some INEC officials were convicted for their malfeasance in the last elections and the story should not be different this time. “Any INEC officials who fail to operate according to the rule and the electoral law should face the consequences” he said.