The Spokesperson for the Atiku/Obi Presidential Campaign, Engineer Buba Galadima has assured Nigerians that the Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP) Presidential Candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar will use his vast knowledge in business and the running of modern economy to take Nigeria out of recession if voted into power in Saturday’s Presidential election. Galadima spoke at the PDP National Headquarters in Abuja at the unveiling of a new book titled, ATIKUNOMICS: The Economic Pillar for a New Nigeria written by a journalist, Mr. Victor Emeruwa. The spokesman said the PDP candidate is poised to his world knowledge about running a modern economy to attack unemployment, job insecurity and create a prosperous Nigeria. He said: “There was a time when robbers used to steal cars with abandon, then we brought technology and we were able to track the movement of the cars, you will agree with me that, that method of robbery has greatly reduced because of the deployment of technology. “ This is the same way Atiku is going to use knowledge and technology to take Nigeria out of recession because the people there today have no idea about how to run a modern economy and they did not find it expedient to appoint any known economic adviser,” he said. Galadima insisted that the Buhari administration lack of economic focus caused the recession which he insisted Nigeria is yet to come out from. “ I do not accept the defence of this administration that why we found ourselves in the recession was because  somebody else mismanaged the economy. “ The truth is that by his body language and pronouncements, Buhari scared foreign investor who began to withdraw their money from the stock market. They were so much in a hurry to leave that they were ready to buy the dollar at any price. That is what cause the recession. And because of that, insecurity has spread to many other parts of Nigeria Zamfara all the way to Kogi where people cannot sleep with their two eyes closed.” Speaking on the book, Galadima said ATIKUNOMICS is a window into the thinking of how Atiku will achieve the economic reformation especially economic restructuring. “ This book will give you an insight into Atiku’s economical thinking and how he will pull Nigeria out of the woods it is now, create jobs and create opportunities for the people.” Also speaking, the author said the motivation for writing the book is to show Nigerians a feel of how the economy was restructured during the regional governments and how Nigeria can return to the glory days through a genuine economic restructuring. “ When Atiku began to talk about restructuring Nigeria, I was looking at it from the point of view of the kind of country we had  when Nigeria operated a regional system of government  and how the country was making progress , with competition between the regions. “ This book gives us a strong insight into the Nigeria that we will see when Atiku becomes the president and how the economy would fare under the Atiku presidency.”