 As the country prepares for general elections with the presidential slot coming up this Saturday, organised labour, under the aegis of Trade Union Congress (TUC), has warned the Federal Government against any form of intimidation.
In a communique issued after its National Executive Council meeting in Lagos yesterday, the NEC-in-session called on the Federal Government to avoid all form of intimidation and be transparent in the conduct of the forthcoming general elections.
In particular, it called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be as impartial as possible and having the interest of all Nigerians at heart.
TUC, in the communique signed by its President, Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama, and the Secretary General, Comrade Musa Lawal Ozigi, also called on the police, the military and other security agencies to be professional in discharging their duties since no position is worth the blood of innocent civilians.
On insecurity, the congress reiterated the rate of insecurity in the country. It, therefore, called on the Federal Government to intensify efforts to make sure that killings, kidnapping and insurgency are totally wiped out to save the country from total collapse.
It also decried the planned increase in the cost of acquiring international passport and driver’s license, saying the increase of both documents by the Federal Government was uncalled for.
It, therefore, called on the Federal Government to maintain the status quo and formulate policies that will be more beneficial to the masses.
The labour group, however, commended the Federal Government on the fight against corruption in the country, saying, however, that it should respect the rule of law while doing so.
On the proposed minimum wage, TUC commended the House of Representatives for approving N30,000.00 in the country.
It, therefore, called on the Senate to do the same without any further delay.
The Congress also reiterated that the law establishing National Law Advisory Council (NLAC) should be reviewed to include major stakeholders, e.g TUC, saying that the NEC-in-session would no longer tolerate the violation of trade union rights of its members to representation, collective bargaining and be consulted on labour matters in the country.