Musa Pam, Jos Barely 24 hours to the 2019 General Elections Elders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gyel District of Jos South Local Government Area in Plateau North Senatorial District of Plateau State have defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to support Alh. Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate. A member of Governor Simon Lalong Campaign Organisation, Hon. Pam Tizah, also known as Ashasha, who led 30 elders and about one hundred supporters out of the APC on Friday during PDP meeting in Jos, described the party as clueless. Hon Tizah, who is former PDP Chairman, Jos South LGA dumped the PDP in 2017 with Chairman House Committee on Rules and Business in the House of Representatives, Hon. Edward Pwajok (SAN) and defected from the APC to join Pwajok who was since received back to PDP by former Vice President, Alh. Atiku Abubakar. He said: “I was a member of APC State Campaign Council but I decided to come back to PDP, the house we all build to support Hon. Edward Pwajok in mobilizing support for Atiku Abubakar, Sen. Jeremiah Useni and all PDP candidates. “There is nothing in the APC that will add value to my people, therefore I can’t be wasting my time there doing nothing. I have been under pressure from my supporters to come back to PDP and assist the people who are helpless from insecurity. He expressed confidence that PDP will win the Saturday Presidential and National Assembly Elections from the top to bottom to liberate Nigerians from hunger, hardship and insecurity. Former PDP Secretary Plateau State, Hon. Dalyop Jonathan Bok, who abandoned the party in 2017 described his return to the party as coming home, saying APC has not add any value to his people. He noted that politics should not be based on political parties but should be based on conscious of an individual and credible candidate who has the capacity to rescue the people from the wilderness. “We are back to PDP with full force to lend our support to Hon. Edward Pwajok, Chairman House Committee on Rules and Business in the House of Reps to mobilize support for PDP from the grassroot, he has been our political mentor and we will keep moving towards his direction.” Chairman of the PDP Elders Forum in Gyel District, Gyang Mali Jok expressed joy that the defectors would add electoral value to the PDP during the Saturday election. He noted that the Elders returned to PDP with hundreds of their supporters and predicted that PDP will win the Saturday election in Plateau state. As the 2019 general elections hot up in Plateau State, there are strong indications that the three senators representing the state in the National Assembly are planning to vacate their seats for the youths to succeed them, writes MUSA PAM   The three senators in Plateau State, were all elected… In "News" Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State yesterday said a lawmaker representing Jos South/Jos East constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Edward Pwajok, who recently defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) did so alone without his supporters.   The… In "News" Chairman House Committee on Rules and Business and member representing Jos South/ Jos East Federal Constituency of Plateau State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Edward Pwajok (SAN) has dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) along with his supporters.   Pwajok disclosed this on… In "News"