PDP: Your target is to blackmail, cow opposition  Ahead of next week’s presidential election, the two major political parties have launched a war of words against each other on what should be the roles and operational limits of the various security agencies during the polls. National Publicity Secretary of APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, called on the opposition party to stop overheating the polity by its accusations that INEC and the security agencies were  working in tandem with APC to rig the election.  But, the PDP has accused the APC of turning itself into the official mouthpiece of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigeria Police. It stated that the ruling party is out to blackmail and cow the opposition. Issa-Onilu said that the PDP and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar should rather address real campaign issues and accused them of always crying wolf and elevating falsehood into an ignoble art during their campaigns.  “We urge INEC and other state institutions responsible for different election duties to remain firm and focused in the discharge of their legitimate roles. They must not be stampeded into taking actions that run contrary to the Constitution and the Electoral Act.  “Nigerians have also watched in disbelief how the PDP, without proof, has consistently and vehemently pilloried state institutions performing various roles in the coming general elections. “From security agencies to our election management body, the PDP has spared none its barefaced lies. On a daily basis, the PDP has invented one lie after the other to discredit state institutions in the eyes of Nigerians and the international community. PDP’s ignoble actions are unhealthy for our electoral processes and a threat to our maturing democracy.  “The PDP’s game plan is simple: Discredit the entire process before, during, and after the elections in order to make the final outcome a “nullity” in its own jaundiced eyes. “The PDP must understand that all registered political parties are equal stakeholders in the coming elections; hence the PDP’s      tired narrative that the entire election process is skewed against it should be seen for what it is – PDP’s admittance of defeat.  “The era of sham elections is behind us. The records of credible elections conducted since the APC took over the country’s governance are public knowledge compared to selections, impositions and fraudulent elections under the PDP.  “We will continue in our progressive tradition in ensuring that elections are free, peaceful credible and every vote counts – The wishes of the electorate must prevail in all elections. “Our free advice to the PDP is that it should concentrate its energy to resuscitate its floundering campaign, which has seen majority of its governors tacitly and openly avoid supporting the presidential bid of the PDP candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar,” Issa-Onilu said. Spokesperson of the PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, Kassim Afegbua, in an interview yesterday, described the APC-led Federal Government as a “lousy and incoherent blackmailer” that wakes up at every point, to raise ridiculous issues against the opposition.  “It is APC that is actually overheating the polity with all manner of balderdash. We are familiar with their pranks and we will continue to monitor them closely to checkmate their dubious plans to manipulate the elections. “Our responsibility is to alert Nigerians of the strong desire of the APC to rig the election knowing full well their campaigns are not eliciting the right interest. “The moment they saw that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar was being endorsed by all the socio-political and socio-cultural groups, they developed cold feet.  “By next week, the nation will witness the turning point in our collective effort to rescue our country from the grip of non-performing cabals who have been feasting on our collective patrimony with reckless abandon,” he said. The PDP accused the ruling APC of attempt to demonize, blackmail and cow opposition in its quest to rig the February 16 presidential election. PDP, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted the incessant threats against the opposition and law abiding Nigerians by the presidency, through the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. It accused the APC of heating up the polity, injecting crisis and plan to undermine the general elections, so as to carry out its heinous plots using mercenaries from Niger Republic to unleash mayhem on the nation and blame it on the opposition.  According to the statement, the presidency is laying landmines to undermine credible elections in the country, “including the clampdown on opposition, foisting of President Buhari’s relation, Amina Zakari, as head of INEC’s collation centre, the refusal by President Buhari to sign the amendment to the Electoral Act, the creation of illegal geo-spatial centres and polling units for allocation of fictitious votes for the APC, listing of APC supporters as election officials and the opening of our borders to mercenaries to participate in our electoral process.  “It is now clear to all that the target of the APC is to demonize and cow the opposition, instil fear in Nigerians, undermine our democratic institutions, attempt to subjugate the citizenry and pave the way for the actualization of a self-succession plan for President Buhari.” The party, therefore, told the APC that Nigerians would never allow themselves to be blackmailed, intimidated or cowed into relinquishing their constitutionally guaranteed rights, to freely choose their leaders, no matter the threats. In a similar vein, Atiku has warned security agencies not to interfere in the nation’s electoral process. Atiku whose warning came at a campaign rally in Jalingo, Taraba State, advised those serving in these institutions not to allow politicians to destroy their career. “Our security services, you have no business to interfere with our political process, that is not your work. Your work is to make sure that there is peace, law and order. “Your constitutional responsibility is to make sure that we are all safe.  Any government that draws the security agencies – the police, the army, the civil defence, that government is doing more harm to your career, it is doing more harm to your patriotism and more harm to yourself,” he said. National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, who was also on the campaign train, accused the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed of raising false alarm on alleged plans by the opposition to instigate violence and scuttle the elections. “I want to challenge Lai Mohammed to bring his evidence or bury his head in shame. You don’t raise issues without evidence,” he said.