Joe Albert, one of the renowned Seychellois making waves in the travel industry speaks on his success and rise from a relatively obscure level to a place of prominence   Background
Joe Albert of United Concrete Products Seychelles (UCPS), as he is mostly known locally was born in 1948, the son of planter and distiller, Joseph Albert, who was a man of good repute back in those days. His father was one of the four people who led the primary industries of cinnamon and copra in the 1950s, 60s and 70s. The rise of Joe Albert
Went to be educated in England after my A’ level and graduated in business management which encompassed subjects like economics, statistics accounts and law.
Not everyone is fortunate to find a job straight after their overseas studies or tertiary education locally. You encounter many difficulties in relation to job requirements. But as for him, after seven years he came back looking for a job, he was surprisingly either told he was too qualified or to get a job in the private sector. This part of his past, was not an easy one he said as he shared his recollections with us.
And so he took us on a trip down memory lane, a past filled with ups and downs, surprises and great expectations.
“I joined a Mauritian company for eight months which was called Civil Engineering Company. After a year this company that has started the UCPS in 1970 kept on changing managers and could not get it right.
“In 1973 they decided to pull back the building construction company which was the largest in Seychelles at that time, they were providing rocks to UCPS. And they said to the owner that there is a Seychellois who could be considered for the post.
“This is when I went for interview, got the job but I knew nothing about aggregates. It was a field that was completely unknown to me,” he recalled.
Soon after he left for Mauritius in the parent company where he embarked on a three-month training programmer.
After three months, I was ready in principle but I really learned on the job itself, he said.
“Over the last 44 years, I’ve been here on and off at UCPS, and in 1999 when there was a crisis of foreign exchange and at the time when the company was doing reasonably well but did not earn foreign exchange, I was told by my advisors that I should consider looking for businesses that are available so that you could earn foreign exchange through them,” he recounted.
“I got a call to tell me there was a company available National Travel Agency. After much discussion, I took the company. I knew nothing about Destination Management Companies (DMCs) back then, so I appointed someone who was then working in tourism. But due to some reasons, I had to take over managing the company.
“I am not a genius in anything but I am a hard worker. When I took over to manage the agency, I knew nothing about it. Then I started listening. The thing about tourism with all its specificities is that no one came and advise me or showed me how to go about. Trial and error is what made my success, and I am a born optimist.
And the rest just went from strength to strength. The cosmetic world of tourism
Four years later, with a change of name as part of its rebranding, a proud Albert clinched the first prize for his company in the U-First campaign. Winning the coveted U-First prize served as a push and motivation. Little did he know that his venture into the tourism world would lead him into the ferry business.
And so destiny called again and good luck came creeping at his door. The Mauritians were selling the Travel Services Seychelles company and after much discussion, Albert became the owner.
Travel Services Seychelles was running Cat Cocos service which was then operating on a smaller scale, and this is the story of how this ferry business ended up in the capable hands of Albert, a Seychellois.
Then the businesses were merged with Creole Holidays to become the Creole Travel Services – a company that has made a name for itself locally and internationally.
Venturing into the world of tourism is not everyone’s cup of tea and being successful is not a feat that each adventurer can attain.
Owning a destination management company had given him a new idea – why not try hotels now?
And yes there was no stopping Albert and being a determined and optimistic man, he managed to do it.
“I have invested most of my wealth in tourism. It is tough and competitive but I believe in tourism,” he said.
“I will always remain a humble man who will defend the flag and position of Seychelles, and that of the Seychellois nation. I stand strong to say we are a sovereign nation, we have ability and we are as good as others.
“The young generation should be conscious that they have a role to play as they will be the future leaders of the country.” A man of inspiration and wise words
“I had a very strong father and he was tough. I remember when I had come back after my studies, he told me to go live my dreams and to make my own living. Being tough on me, he made me aware that life is indeed tough. I had no other option but to go forward,” he said.
“My former father-in-law helped me a lot in the aggregate industry and I looked up to him. But as for tourism, it was my own belief, experience and vision. I always believe that we are all born the same way but it is what you do with your life.
“You need to have a vision and to be determined. In tourism you need to have a flamboyant personality and be able to convince. Respect is earned and you can earn it by the way you develop, by the way you visualise things.”
His successes are due to his hard work and devotion. Sacrifices are made, mostly meaning more time spent boosting the businesses and less time for enjoyment, no partying on festive days such as Christmas, Easter and New Year. A lot of people would have left this half way, but Albert went all the way.
‘‘I am not afraid of hard work and I have never run away from it except when my body tells me it is time to slow down or else I will have to shut down,’’ he added.
Not inherited directly from his father who was a self-made man like himself, Albert said it is possible to start with nothing, and he is a living example of that.
Although his father chose to let him venture into the world away from the family business, Albert decided to give his sons the chance to join him and surely they took the opportunities their father gave them.
I listened attentively on how well he knows the industry, how he had learned over the years, from a man who knew nothing about destination management company among other bits of our tourism industry, but now he has become a man who is well-versed in it. Learning to be more determined
“If today I feel beaten I go and brood over it in private. I search myself and my soul over and after 24 hours I come out more determined as ever. I think of people who have been my team, over 1400 members of staff and who look up to me,” he told us.
Does he have or did he have sleepless nights? Surely he has had his share of parading the corridors of his house and not being able to get a good night’s sleep during his younger days and when he had entered the business world.
“As long as I cannot see light at the end of the tunnel, I will not sit down. I will keep searching my soul and turning every pebble.”
But away from the tourism businesses he has built and the UCPS, he has time to unwind but to my surprise it was not something I hear from my other profile interviewees. A keen canoeist, Albert chooses this sport to relieve stress and keep his body healthy. And when asked what keeps him happy he had this to tell us…
“The success of the businesses and the happiness of the people around me keep me happy,” he said smiling.
And indeed the News Bureau team left his conference room at Pointe Larue with a smile as not only have we learned the other down-to-earth and outgoing side of a man who is well-respected but with his sense of humour and wise words, we felt optimistic and more determined in the work we do. *Culled: St. Ange Tourism Report, January edition