CHUKWU DAVID examines the National Assembly elections, with particular focus on senators and some prominent members of the House of Representatives facing stiff opposition from their direct and indirect challengers  In the National Assembly elections, which will hold today alongside the presidential election, only 69 out of about 80 serving senators, who contested for return tickets in their various party primaries last year, were successful and will participate in the polls. There is no gainsaying that the senatorial elections are going to be keenly contested across the 36 states of the federation and the federal capital territory, Abuja. Although no election is an easy task, no matter the level it is taking place, however, today’s polls will definitely be a battle of the political titans because no politician wants to lose in an electoral contest. However, there are some of the senators and members of House of Reps in the race, who are having peculiar opposition within their senatorial districts and federal constituencies, and therefore need to fight extra hard to be able to survive and emerge to be part of the 9th Assembly which will be inaugurated in June. Some of the senators and Reps, due to certain peculiar circumstances, are actually facing stiff opposition directly from the ruling government of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and consequently, they know that they have very stubborn hurdles to crush to be able to actualise their political ambition. Bukola Saraki One of such persons facing very stiff opposition in his bid to return to the 9th National Assembly is the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki. From the inception of the 8th Senate, Saraki had been having what could be described as irresolvable strife with the leadership of the APC and the Presidency. The genesis of this conflict was when Saraki defied what politicians tag party supremacy to contest and emerge as the President of the Senate, at the expense of the preferred candidate of the party, Senator Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe North), who was later appointed the Leader of the Senate. The rift degenerated to a point where the ruling party and indeed the Presidency, began to see the number three citizen as a major reason for the failure of Muhammadu Buhari-led administration in fulfilling its campaign promises to Nigerians. He has been accused on many occasions by the Presidency and the APC leadership to be frustrating the progress of the government by not allowing certain requests of the Executive to receive express approval in the Senate. Whether this allegation is true or not is left for the informed Nigerians to decide based on realities on ground. This unending acrimonious relationship between Saraki and the APC leadership and the Presidency eventually forced him to defect to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the party that actually brought him to political relevance in the country, where he is currently the Director-General of the PDP Presidential Campaign Council. Now, in the bid to take its pound of flesh against the President of the Senate for opposing and eventually dumping the APC, the the ruling party has vowed and is doing everything possible to ensure that Saraki is disgracefully defeated at the Kwara Central senatorial polls today. Political pundits say that it was in the desperation of the APC leadership to stop Saraki that led to the deployment of Mr. Kayode Egbetokun, former Chief Security Officer to former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the Kwara State Commissioner of Police. Apart from his face-off with the federal government, Saraki is also having serious opposition back home in Kwara State, where significant citizens of the state are begrudging what they consider as undue dominance of the President of the Senate over the state since he saddled Kwara’s mantle of leadership as governor between 2003 and 2011. The disgruntled elements in Kwara are therefore, seeking an opportunity to remove Bukola Saraki from the Senate, with the intention that this will make him to lose grip of power in the State and also gradually demolish what they perceive as Saraki dynasty in Kwara. Right now, Bukola’s step sister, Gbemisola, is standing as the APC candidate for Kwara Central. Going by the enormous opposition confronting Saraki, and the usual tendency for the ruling party to take advantage of incumbency and use state apparatus to its advantage during elections, the President of the Senate must intensify his strategies to be able to win Saturday election; else, he may lose his political relevance in Kwara and by extension in Nigeria. Dino Melaye Senator Dino Melaye (PDP, Kogi West), is another person facing serious opposition in the forthcoming election. He has also been having life-threatening running battles with the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, and also with the federal government. It is pertinent to note that while the tussle for who would become the gover-nor of Kogi heightened, after the demise of the APC candidate, Abubakar Audu, Senator Melaye was a formidable supporter of Bello, to the point that he (Melaye) declared that Bello was anointed by God to rule the state. However, few months after Bello was inaugurated, his relationship with Melaye turned sour. In fact, the hatred between the two politicians now is so obvious that it became politically impossible for the two to co-exist in the same party. At the end of the day, Melaye had no option than to leave the APC and join the PDP. He is going to fight it out on Saturday with Senator Smart Adeyemi of the APC, who also has the entire support of the state governor and government. However, it appeared that Melaye has the massive backing of his constituents, who are sympathetic with him over what they consider as his persecution by powers that be. Barnabas Gemade Barnabas Gemade represents Benue North East on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Gemade who was a founding member of the PDP and one time national chairman of the party, defected to the APC in 2015 just to return to the Senate, when the PDP ticket for his district was given to the former Governor of the state, Gabriel Suswam. During the peak of the crisis rocking the APC in 2018, when 13 senators dumped the ruling party in a Senate plenary session, he joined them to defect to the PDP. Then when he saw that the PDP was not willing to give him return ticket at the primaries, he immediately defected again to the SDP. Suswam is the PDP candidate for the senatorial poll in Benue North East. The former governor has been threatening to give Gemade overwhelming defeat in the field. It is obvious that Suswam has advantage over Gemade, in the sense that the PDP is now the ruling party in the state while SDP is not very popular there. So, the state Governor, Emmanuel Ortom, will definitely lend his support to Suswam. Besides this, Suswam, apart from belonging to the ruling party in Benue, is adjudged by the electorate to be more liberal and generous than Gemade, who is said to be conservative and less generous to constituents. This will therefore, make the contest very tough for Gemade. Andy Uba Senator Andy Uba represents Anambra South on the platform of the APC. He will be contesting with his younger brother, Chris Uba, who is the candidate for the PDP, and the Abuja-based business mogul, Mr. Nicholas Ukachukwu, who is the senatorial candidate for the ruling party in the State, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The battle is certainly going to be fierce and Andy Uba won’t find the experience funny because both his younger brother and the candidate for APGA are not neophytes in politics. It is on record that Chris Uba has made attempts in the past to come to the National Assembly without success. On his part, Ukachukwu had served in the House of Representatives in the 4th Assembly and got elected to the Senate in the 5th Assembly but was removed through court judgement. Since then, he has been making efforts to find his way to the apex legislative Chamber. In this particular contest, Ukachukwu appears to have brighter chance to win because his party is currently in power, and the governor, Willie Obiano, will definitely throw his weight behind him. Although the Governor earlier said that APGA would support President Muhammadu Buhari in his re-election bid, he said that APGA would support its own candidates at other levels of election. Based on facts on ground in Anambra politics, Andy Uba has to work extra hard to be able to eliminate all the hurdles on his way to returning to the Red chamber when the 9th Senate is constituted in June. Shehu Sani Senator Shehu Sani represents Kaduna Central on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). Sani was a member of the APC until late last year, when he joined the PRP as the last option upon which he could get return ticket, after being denied the opportunity by the APC. He has very strained relationship with his Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, who used his power as the leader of the party in the state to ensure that Sani, as his archantagonist did not get the ticket.PRP is actually not a prominent party in any part of Nigeria in the present dispensation but at times people vote for individuals rather than parties. It is only from this light that Sani can make slightest impact in the senatorial contest. Even though el-Rufai is not in good terms with all the three senators representing Kaduna, it appears that his rift with Sani is so intense that he will do everything within his powers to stop him from emerging on today. Suleiman Hunkunyi Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi represents Kaduna Central on the platform of the PDP. He was one of the senators that left the APC in July last year. As it is well known, he has been having frosty relationship with Governor Nasir el-Rufai. He actually went for the governorship ticket after he defected to PDP but lost to a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Isah Ashiru, at the primary election. El-Rufai had vowed to ensure he retires the three senators representing the state from politics, as he considers them enemies of the state, particularly when the three legislators vehemently opposed the governor’s request for a loan of USD350, which was forwarded through President Muhammadu Buhari to the Senate for approval. The governor who was highly embittered about the role played by the senators in denying Kaduna the loan, in addition to the existing strife between him and them, will definitely wait for them at the polls to take his pound of flesh, using his incumbency to stop them from returning to the Senate. Danjuma Laah Senator Danjuma Laah represents Kaduna South on the platform of the PDP. As already mentioned, he is not in the good book of el-Rufai, and therefore has to put unusual effort to be able to survive the waiting hammer of the governor. However, it also expected that the combined forces of the three senators can also cause el-Rufai to be defeated in his bid to be re-elected to the Government House on March 2nd. In fact, Kaduna is going to be a battle ground in the impending elections, where the governor and the state representatives in the National Assembly will engage in a war of wit, where the stronger force will carry the day. Rabiu Kwankwaso Senator Musa Rabiu Kwankwaso is a chieftain of the PDP, representing Kano Central Senatorial District. He was a staunch member of the APC, but became disenchanted by the abysmal performance of the party and decided to join other senators who defected to the opposition party in July, 2018. Today, Kwankwaso is the leader of the PDP in Kano. Though a grassroots politician, commanding high loyalty from numerous Kano citizens, it is expected that Saturday election will not be easy for him because he has strained relationship with Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, who will leave no stone unturned in trying to frustrate his ambition at the polls. However, this hurdle notwithstanding, the Kwankwasiyya political movement in Kano, which controls a large chunk of frontline politicians in the state will, no doubt put up a dogged fight to rescue him from possible defeat on Saturday. Yakubu Dogara Hon. Yakubu Dogara, who is the Speaker of the House of Representatives, is a chieftain of the PDP, representing Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency of Bauchi State. Just like Bukola Saraki, he dumped the APC for the PDP at the peak of the crisis in the ruling party, especially when it was clear to him that the APC was going to deny him return ticket. Dogara is also having a seeming unending battle with his Governor, Mohammed Abubakar. The two became political enemies because the governor didn’t back his speakership ambition. According to information, the reason the governor didn’t support Dogara’s ambition to be speaker was because the APC had zoned the position of speaker to the South West. With Dogara’s defection to the opposition party, the die is cast, and the battle line is since drawn between him and the APC leadership both at the national and the state levels. While the party will mobilise everything at its disposal to push out the Speaker from his ambition to return to the Green Chamber, he will in turn, deploy his political arsenals to wage a bitter war of survival against the ruling party on Saturday. It is really going to be an interesting battle to watch; and Nigerians are eager to see the outcome of the titanic warfare. Obinna Ogba Senator Obinna Ogba is a stalwart of the PDP and represents Ebonyi Central. Although PDP is the ruling party in the state, he is facing Senator Julius Ucha, who is the candidate of the APC and a more popular politician in Ebonyi than Ogba. Therefore, Ogba is going to face a very tough battle in his bid to return to the Senate. Mao Ohuabunwa Mao Ohuabunwa represents Abia North on the platform of the PDP. His re-election bid will definitely be tough because he is going to slug it out with the former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, who is obviously a very popular politician and a chieftain of the APC. Political pundits say that Ohuabunwa has been jittery over the participation of Dr. Kalu in the race because when they met in the field in 2015, it was not easy for the former member of the House of Representatives, as he narrowly emerged to represent Abia North through a court judgement. This time around, there is palpable apprehension in his camp, that he might lose the seat to Kalu. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE examines the possibility of incumbent senators in Ogun State breaking the second term jinx come 2019     Since Nigeria returned to civilian administration in May 29, 1999, Ogun State is the only state in Nigeria where none of its three representatives at the Senate had ever served… In "Politics" Okegwo Kenechukwu reports on the intriguing political battle that looms in Anambra State over who represents each of the three senatorial districts of the state in the National Assembly   The stage is set for yet another political show of might and popularity contest between the top political players in… In "Politics" Felix Nwaneri and Temitope Ogunbanke capture the major political landmarks that shaped Nigeria’s political space in 2018   The year 2018 has been an interesting one given the fact that it is preceding a general elections. As a result of this, it has been characterized by intrigues and maneuverings of… In "Politics"