Dr. Kunle Olajide is the Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), he spoke with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE on today’s polls. Excerpts…  What are your expectation as Nigerians go for elections? Naturally, I want the best for this country, I expect the politicians to play according to the rules of the game. In other words, they must not encourage violence in any form. The electorate must be prepared to use their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs); go out to vote peacefully, stay there until the votes are counted and results are announced peacefully and then go back to their homes. I also expect the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be very neutral, impartial and follow to the letter, their guidelines and electoral laws; ensure that the card readers work and that officials are trained to be neutral, performs their duties diligently; do the accreditation when it ought to be done, encourage the voters to vote in secret ballots, count the votes and announced the results. For the security agents, they must be neutral, they must ensure that all parties to the electoral process; the voters, INEC officials, electorate and spectators comply with the rules and letters of the law. That is their own duty. They have no duty to intimidate voters. They have no responsibility to harass INEC officials or politicians. Everybody should play the game according to the rules. So, whatever is the wish of the majority of Nigerians should prevail. That is what I expect. Some people are alleging the INEC chairman of being impartial, do you agree with them? I want to believe the chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, that this election according to him will be far better than what we had in 2015. I want to believe him and give him benefit of doubt. It is a pity that the Electoral Act Amendment law was not assented to by Mr. President but let us make the best of what we have. Let us trust him; standby and watch because it is easy to watch. If all the political parties have their agents in every polling booths; they have the results announced and in this day of technology, they can record the announcement of the results. To the best of my knowledge, each of the serious political parties must have own collation centres in every local governments and states, so they can compute the results and know if any manipulation is done. What is your take on vote-buying? Where you have perverse poverty; don’t let us deceive ourselves, voting-buying will persist irrespective of the legislation you made, particularly with our experience in Nigeria, that politicians on several occasions have failed the people. They make promises before election and when they get to office, they don’t even come back home to see people who voted for them. So, our people do not believe our politicians and because of the depth of poverty we have now, they would divide all source of means to get whatever money they can get from the politicians now, because once they are elected into office, they won’t see them again. Yes, vote-buying is very bad but it is a product of the ignorant of the masses. They do not know the important of their franchise and votes; they don’t know that there votes determine the quality of the present and the future they will have and their children. So, it is a product of ignorant. To a large extent, I say the political elites in Nigeria on all divides have conspired to impoverish our people so that they can continue to dominate us forever. So, it is for us as a people, civil society organisations and the media to begin to put pressure on government to fund education; to make people literate to know their right from left and know the use of their votes. If they appreciate the worth of their votes, they will not sell them. It is both the seller and buyers that are guilty. What is your advice to the electorate? My advice is that everybody must go out and perform their civic duties responsibly; no cohesion, no harassment, no forcing of anybody to vote one way or the other. Political leaders too should educate their supporters to ensure that INEC and the security agencies play their roles according to the laws. As far as I am concerned, we have laws in Nigeria that should apply to people, no matter how highly placed; nobody is above the law. Anybody who wants to incite voter or Nigerians should be arraigned before the court of law for attempt to cause a bridge of peace and he should be duly sanctioned.