The candidate of Young Democratic Party (YDP) for Anambra South Senatorial District, Ifeanyi Ubah, believes that his party will shock Nigerians in the forthcoming general elections. He also speaks in this interview on issues concerning the South-East and how he intends to tackle them. OKEY MADUFORO reports  The face-off between you and the governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, shook the state and explains why you left the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for Young Democratic Party (YDP). What really transpired? I do not intend to go over the story of what happened because it is no longer news. Everybody in Anambra State can tell the story better than even me. We all worked to return the governor back to the government house and after that he chose to disappoint the people. I leave it for God to judge. As for me, I have moved on and my eyes are on the senatorial seat of Anambra South district. We thought that APGA as a political party would be used to feather the nest of Ndigbo, which was the essence of forming that political party, but the way and manner it is being handled, one wonders if we shall reach the Promise Land. One still wonder if after Obiano, there would be another governor from the party. But YDP is a new political party without established structure in the state. How do you intend to realise your ambition on its platform? Yes, the party may appear young to you, but its members are not new to Nigeria’s politics. Most of the party’s candidates had at one time or the other been in politics and some have occupied political and elected public offices and understand the trappings of Nigeria’s politics. So, you should not be surprised if majority of its candidates emerge victorious in this coming elections. We have a presidential candidate who doesn’t need any introduction and so far his campaigns have been sinking deep into the mentality and sensibilities of Nigerians. You can agree with me that I am not new to Nigeria’s politics or the politics of Anambra State because I am on ground. My party members have the capacity and the popularity to win elections at all levels, so when you say that the party is new, what about the members who are no strangers to the political terrain? All that we in YDP are asking for is the support of Nigerians and history would be made. Anambra South has political heavyweights such as Senator Andy Uba, Nicholas Ukachukwu, Chris Uba, who are also contesting the senatorial elections. What are your chances? The same question is being put across to them by your colleagues about me and they are also apprehensive about my participation in the race. Anambra South has seven local government areas and we know ourselves. We meet at campaigns and exchange pleasantries. I want to disabuse the minds of people that on the Election Day, heaven will fall. No, heaven will not fall. This is a brotherly contest and nobody is going to shed the blood of another person because of politics. There is that maturity among us.
I believe in a free and fair contest and that the peoples’ vote must count. Power belongs to the people and the electorate will choose who will represent them in the National Assembly. It is not the duty of the security agents or some miscreants because we in YDP will not allow thugs and miscreants to derail the electoral process and I am sure that the security agents will stop them. What exactly would be your mission in the Senate if elected?
Simply, effective and people oriented representation, a representation that will carry the people along, a representation that will solve the problems of Anambra South senatorial zone. We have Ihiala Local Government Area in Anambra South with rich mineral resources that must be explored for development; we have Nnewi South Local Government Area with lots of solid minerals and green vegetation. Ekwusigo and Nnewi North share the commercial hub of auto spare parts in the country and have small, medium and large scale industries, but confronted with problem of electricity.
No business or commercial venture can succeed without power and my mission is to express that urgent need to have a dry port in Nnewi market to move it to the next level. When you visit Orumba North, Orumba South and Aguata local government areas, you see palm plantations and oil palm produce that can be processed for export. The problem of Nigeria is that of monolithic economy hinged on petroleum alone. It was palm oil that late Michael Okpala used in developing the old East Central State during the First Republic, but today, where are the palm plantations?
We can have an irrigation channel cutting across the Uranshi River in Ihiala and linking other tributaries in Orumba North and South council areas as well as Aguata. Our problem is that representations in the past did not look inward Anambra South to actually know what the people need, not what you want to do for them which has never impacted positively on their lives. I will take part in making laws that will benefit our people, sponsor bills and motions for the country and Anambra South in particular. It is my vision that after four years of my representation in the Senate, Anambra South would be better off in terms of infrastructural development, youth empowerment, educational foundation and over all, socio- economic growth. Ndigbo of the South East have continued to lament all forms of neglect. What is your take on that? I weep for our brothers and sisters in Igbo land because of what they are passing through. I am in business and I am also a victim. The type of politics being played against our people in business, importation and manufacturing sectors is unimaginable. Sometimes a man goes to bed and he will pass on and that is the end. When you investigate, you will discover that he took loan from a bank, one funny policy is introduced and all his investments will crash.
Those making or introducing those policies are not business people and they do not understand what goes on in that sector. So, they can afford to make policies that do not have a human face and at the end, somebody carries the problem and dies. You cannot wake up one morning and initiate a policy without looking at its impact on security and the people. So, Igbo business men and women are suffering and this is a task before the members of the National Assembly of Igbo extraction.