The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) may include, in the nearest future, two items – tomatoes and milk – on forex restriction list in line with the bank’s policy of discouraging importation of items that can be produced locally.  The Bank’s governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, dropped the hint of two additional items being considered for forex allocation restriction on Monday in Kaduna when he and Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Audu Ogbe, inspected Gino tomatoes processing plant located in Kaduna State. Emefiele said he has held meetings with the management of West Africa Milk Company on the need to start producing milk locally against importing the dairy product into the country.  “Our soil is good, our climate is good. So, I don’t see any reason why we shouldn’t be doing what we are doing here today. I don’t even know how we have done this in the past, importing these tomatoes. The CBN is working with the Ministries of Agriculture and Rural Development, Trade and Investment, to get more aggressive and vigorously pursue the objective of diversifying the structure of the Nigerian economy.  “Many more will happen. Like the minister said, whether we like it or not, as long as we’re producing this for our consumption and possibly for export, there’s no choice other than to ban this. There are other products as well. I keep talking about milk, for instance. Milk is being imported into the country for more than 60 years even before I was born. And I’ve told WAMCO that we need to come back. What does it need to produce milk? Isn’t it to fatten the cow, give it the necessary nutrients and water it to produce more milk? And yet they said milk cannot be produced in Nigeria. We will confront it.  They too should get ready to join in this train,” the governor said. Emefiele lamented a situation where Nigeria was importing virtually every item she is capable of producing locally, thus frittering away foreign exchange that ought to be conserved. Ogbe said it was a shame for Nigeria to be importing tomatoes into the country when it has all it takes to produce and export leftover.  The minister lauded the CBN for its unrelenting financial funding of agriculture programmes, noting that with the bank’s direct support by a way of funding agriculture programmes, Nigeria is approaching food sufficiency target.  “People have called him (Emefiele) names and criticized him. But if he had not devised the means of bypassing the mountains of obstacles confronting production in this country, by today, the story of Nigeria would have been a horrible one. We’re proud of the investments being made,” he said. Director of Corporate Affairs, GB Foods, Mr. Teddy Ngu, said CBN policy and diversification policy of the government was a source of encouragement for his firm to revive its plants. The N2 billion tomatoes investment has 100 hectares of land, but tomatoes farm currently occupies about 30 hectares.