…strikes out APC’s appeal…clears the way for Wike  The Supreme Court, yesterday, struck out an appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to challenge the judgement of the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt barring the party from presenting candidates in Rivers State for the general elections. Delivering its ruling, a five-man panel of the apex court, led by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour, struck out the appeal by the APC after upholding the preliminary objection filed against it by a group of 22 members of the party loyal to Senator Magnus Abe in the state.  The 22 party members, led by Ibrahim Umar, are opposed to the emergence of Tony Cole as the governorship candidate of the party in the state. Delivering the lead ruling, Justice Amir Sanusi said the preliminary objection by the respondents was meritorious. Justice Sanusi said that the apex court’s reasons for striking out the suit would be given at a date to be communicated to parties to the suit.  The ruling of the apex court has cleared the way for an easy contest on March 2 for Governor Nyesom Wike of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Counsel to the appellant, Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) and that of respondents, Henry Bello had earlier adopted their briefs.  While addressing the court, Fagbemi urged the Supreme Court to nullify the judgement of the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt on the ground that the trial court had no jurisdiction when it entertained the suit. He also claimed that since the trial court had no jurisdiction, its judgement in the matter amounted to a nullity and should be set aside. Fagbemi specifically asked the Supreme Court to invoke section 22 of the Supreme Court act and give final judgement in the matter to end the multiple cases arising from the Rivers State APC primary election. However, in his own argument, counsel for the respondent, Bello urged the apex court to dismiss the appeal of the APC on the ground that it has become a mere academic in nature.  He submitted that by the decision of the apex court of February 8, 2019, which upheld the decision of the High Court in Port Harcourt and barred APC from conducting primary election, the case of APC had died and should be buried.  Bello told the court that the respondent, led by Ibrahim Umar, who were aggrieved by the violation of the Electoral Act and the 1999 Constitution in the manner the APC conducted the primary election in Rivers, had secured a consent judgement at the high court and that the judgement still stands. He urged the apex court to hold that the instant appeal has become academic exercise The Supreme Court has struck out an appeal filed by the APC challenging the judgment of a High Court in Port Harcourt which barred the party from conducting any primaries in the state to nominate candidates to represent the party in the forth coming election. Ruling on a preliminary objection… In "News" PDP hails judgement   The Supreme Court in a unanimous decision yesterday upheld the annulment of the governorship primaries conducted by a faction of the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, saying it is fraught with irregularities. The apex court however declined to dislodge the high court… In "News" The Supreme Court, yesterday, resolved the leadership crisis in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with its judgement declaring Senator Ahmed Makarfi as the national chairman of the party. TUNDE OYESINA reports on how the legal battle was won and lost The lingering leadership crisis in the opposition party, Peoples Democratic… In "Politics"