Beautiful Oluwarise Deborah Ebun was popularly called Debbie Rise until her recently announced rebirth and is now known as Deborah Rise. She is Big Brother 2017 finalist and first runner up, Nigerian Idol 2013. Deborah is a singer with an incredible voice and a professional guitarist. She’s now a gospel singer; launching into a new terrain and already gaining ground with her new singles. She speaks with VANESSA OKWARA on the kind of man she wants and her favourite Valentine getaway  What are the qualities you look out for in a man? Number one, he needs to be God fearing and has to really love God. Number two, he has to be a very creative person who, without a 9 to 5 job, is creative and can make ends meet by himself from just his creativity and then number three, he needs to have a fantastic family that will love me as well. So long as he loves me and care about me, every other thing is fine. But the above mentioned is very important.  Have you found him? I can’t answer that right now.  What does Valentine mean to you? Oh my goodness, I’m a hopeless romantic! I believe so much in Valentine. I love all the lovey-dovey stuff. I think Valentine is that special day that lovers set aside to celebrate their love and I think it’s important. In as much as they say Valentine is every day, so is Christmas and New Year. I mean, every day we celebrate the love and the birth of Christ and the death of Christ but there are special days set also aside for these celebrations; that’s how I think Valentine also should be celebrated. So Valentine is that special day where lovers spoil each other with love to mark their love and I think it’s important. How are you going to celebrate it? I’m definitely celebrating Val this year but I will be doing something different on this day and not just allow the day to pass. I can’t tell you so much; so you need to stay tuned to my Insta stories on my Instagram and see exactly what I will be up to in Valentine’s day. Then I will let the cat out of the bag.  What’s your favourite Valentine getaway? I love nature; so anything that helps me to be in sync with nature, traveling as well is my perfect Valentine’s Day getaway. But I’m not someone who ‘likes too much’; I care less for gifts and this entire valentine presents stuff. I’m more for intimacy. So even if I’m indoors, and don’t go anywhere, I just want to feel like that day is special. We will just change things a bit, maybe something more romantic, go somewhere; just do some things that are more romantic than the usual things and the natural Lagos hustle.  Do you believe love is blind?
Definitely love is blind. It’s proven by so many standards. Love is really blind. Once you are in love with someone, there are wrongs and faults that you just easily ignore. There are things that other people do not get away with you but when you are in love, the person can just do it and get away. Yes! Love is definitely blind. That’s because people just get away with things easily. You don’t see wrongs, you don’t see that the person is ugly, you don’t see anything wrong.  What’s your advice to youths this Valentine?
To the youths, I need you to understand that there’s priority for everything. You can’t do the right things at the wrong time. So if you have a valentine, make sure you understand what your future is and what you are doing. You don’t want to create false bubbles; you don’t want to put yourself in some kind of trap as well. So whatever it is you do; make sure you understand what your priorities are. Please your priorities must always come first. Your priority depends on what level you are in life. Do you want to study, do you want to serve God, do you want to be a good child or are ready to settle down? So make sure you put your priorities first and ask yourself questions. In fact, see the end of a thing before the beginning so you don’t get stuck.  What’s your advice to youths in the coming elections?
I will advise you to make sure you don’t discuss who you are voting for or talk down on any party especially with people you are not familiar with; make sure you vote and do not fight. Don’t engage yourself in any political battle. Just make sure you go and vote for who you believe and convinced of. Don’t join the band wagon. Vote for who is right, not because you think the person will win or not but because your vote is your power and that is how you are going to use it.  Are you going to vote in the forthcoming election?
Oh yes, of course I will be voting both in the realm of the spirit and in the realm of the physical. For someone like me, it’s beyond just my vote; it is also about my voice. My vote is just one but my voice can influence like a hundred votes, so I will not just vote, I will also use my voice as much as possible and I’m applying wisdom, maybe that is why you have not heard me say so much. I’m a patriotic Nigerian and will definitely be voting.  Your final words to the Risers nation.
Oh my Risers nation, I’m still very humble to know that I have a nation beside me. I’m super grateful to God that the Risers nation has stuck with me through thick and thin. Even after the rebirth, I still have the Risers army behind me. I want to pray for all the members of the Risers nation and I want you to know that 2019, you will definitely have exploits in this year. You will reach the heights that you couldn’t even reach before. I want you to always remember that as the President of the Risers nation that I love you with my heart and I pray for you every time and I will always make you proud. Pains, anguish of Nigerian slave girls in Saudi Arabia   Thousands of Nigerian girls and young women who went to Saudi Arabia and Oman as domestic workers are living in slave-like conditions, and crying out daily for help. JULIANA FRANCIS captures the stories and suffering of these victims   At… In "Insight" Deborah Quickpen is a six-year-old chess player currently a primary three pupil of Teto Schools, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. Speaking with CHARLES OGUNDIYA who is in Abuja to cover the National Sports Festival she said she plans to become a professional chess player in the future. The parents, Ben and Vera… In "Sports" Apostle Fidel Chimezie is the Founder of Nigeria Ministers Project, the Chief Apostle of Nigeria Ministers Project and Apostolic Discipleship Project (ADPRO). Ordained as an Apostle in 2007, she was formerly an Evangelist, went to Apostolic Training School in Jos under Apostle Jeff Omo- Osagie. She speaks to ESTHER BAKARE… In "Faith"