TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the possibility of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar breaking the 53 years jinx of North-East producing a president after the death of the first Nigeria’s Prime Minister, Sir Abubakar Tafawa-Balewa  As Nigerians go to the poll on Saturday to elect the next occupant of the presidential villa, Aso Rock, come May 29, the election without any iota of doubt is a northern affair as the two leading presidential candidates; President Muhammadu Buhari of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are both from the North.
But despite being a northern affair, some have narrowed it down to a straight fight between North-West and North-East, where both candidates hail from. President Buhari is from the North-West, while Atiku is from North-East.
Nigeria is politically divided to six geo-political zones – North-West, North-East, North-Central, South-West, South-South and South-East. Since the country’s independence on October 1, 1960, the Northern part of Nigeria, which comprised three geo-political zones has produced both civilian and military leader for about 42 years, while the Southern part, had a shot at the number one citizen just for only 17 years.
Though the North has been opportune to produced Nigeria’s civilian and military leaders for 42 years, power seem to have been skewed toward the North-West and North-Central, which produced three civilian presidents and five military heads of state for 36 years. The only person from the North-East who had the opportunity to lead Nigeria was late Sir Abubakar Tafawa-Balewa, who served as Prime Minister between 1960 and 1966.
Tafawa-Balewa, who hailed from Bauchi State, became Nigeria’s first Prime Minister on October 1, 1960, upon the country’s indepence and was re-elected in 1964. He was overthrown and murdered in a coup on January 15, 1966.
General Aguiyi-Ironsi from South-East became head of state on January 16, 1966 and died in a coup on July 29, 1966. General Yakubu Gowon from Plateau in North-Central became head of state on July 29, 1966 and was succeeded by Murtala Mohammed, who is from Kano State, North-West through a coup on July 29, 1975.
Murtala died on February 13, 1976 and was succeeded by his deputy, Olusegun Obasanjo, who hailed from Ogun State in the South-West. Obasanjo handed over to Alhaji Shehu Shagari, from Sokoto State of the North-West as elected president on October 1, 1979. He was re-elected and sworn-in on October 1, 1983, but the political crisis few months after he was re-elected led to military take-over, which produced Muhammadu Buhari, from Kastina State in North-West as head of state.
General Ibrahim Babangida, from Niger State in North-Central took over from Buhari through a coup on August 27, 1985. He, however, stepped aside on August 26, 1993 for the Ernest Shonekan-led Interim National Government, following agitations that trailed the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election.
Shonekan, who is from Ogun State in the South-West was sent packing through a coup that produced General Sani Abacha, who hailed from Kano in North-West as head of state on November 17, 1993. Abacha died on June 9, 1998, and his death paved the way for General Abdulsalami Abubakar from Niger State in North-Central to be at the helms of affairs till he handed over to a democratically elected government on May 29, 1999.
Since then, four presidents have emerged through democratic process; Chief Olusegun Obasanjo from Ogun State, South-West (May 29, 1999 to May 29, 2007), Umar Yar’Adua from Kastina State, North-West (May 29, 2007 to May 19, 2010), Goodluck Jonathan from Bayelsa State, South-South (May 19, 2010 to May 29, 2015) and Buhari (May 29, 2015 to date).
The February 16 presidential election is going to be a major contested between Buhari and Atiku, who hails from Adamawa State in the North-East.
Each of them is intensifying efforts to win the presidential poll. Though many people believe that the victory of any of them will be the continuation of the North at the helms of affairs, some have narrowed the contest to a straight fight between the North-West and North-East.
Some school of thoughts are of the view that the emergence of Atiku as PDP’s candidate will help the party to secure more votes for North-East and that Atiku’s victory will pave the way for the zone to produce its first president since 1999.
Considering the fact that North-East, since Tafawa-Balewa’s death, has not produced Nigeria’s leader, some people believe Atiku may break the long time jinx for someone from North-East to be sworn-in as president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria like other parts of Nigeria.
Atiku, no doubt, has shown that he is prepared for the office of the president, given his speeches, interviews and reactions to national issues, as well as his consistency in contesting for the presidency on five occasions from 1992 till date.
He showed interest in the presidency in 1992, 2007, 2011 and 2015, but none of his efforts yielded desired result.
Now, that he is running for the presidency on the platform of PDP, the former vice president is not leaving any stone unturned to realise his long time dream of governing Nigeria.
Since he emerged as the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku, who has a former governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, as his running mate, has taken his campaign to different parts of Nigeria, seeking for votes from the electorate.
Some political observers believe that Atiku has what it takes to battle President Buhari in Saturday’s presidential election and some are of the view that his political network across the country and PDP structures in all the nooks and crannies of Nigeria will work to his favour.
One of the areas Atiku is banking on for bloc votes is his North-East home zone, but some people are of the view that Buhari’s popularity in the region, which has seen him win majority of votes in the zone in the last three presidential polls with wide margins, may be a stumbling block to Atiku’s dream of occupying Aso Rock come May 29, 2019.
The political calculations, notwithstanding, some of the questions begging for answers as Nigerians go to the polls on Saturday are: Will the North-East support Atiku to realise zone’s long time political aspiration? Will Atiku get the top job 53 years after Balewa? What would become of the North-East quest for presidency if Atiku fails?