Indigenous refinery company, Monsoon Energy Service Hub Limited (MESH), Lagos, has revealed plans to help reduce the monthly importation of 1.2 million metric tons of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) also known as petrol into the country with its 10, 000 barrels per day modular refinery. This was contained in a brief note presented at a summit it had for lenders and vendors in Lagos. The firm maintained that its refinery is structured towards enlarging the midstream sector of the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The proposed refinery is to be situated at the Ugwunagbo area of Aba proximal to Owaza in Abia State, the company said, adding; “The refinery downstream will be covered by the establishment of Monsoon Energy Retail Outlets in areas of Nigeria proximal to the refinery as offtakers of the product yields such as A.G.O – Automotive Gas Oil ( popularly known as Diesel); D.P.K – Dual Purpose kerosene (popularly known as Kerosene) and naphtha – an intermediate hydrocarbon liquid stream.” Having carried out due diligence and courted the identified project vendors for about two years, it was time, according to the note made available to New Telegraph, for an interaction between the financiers and the vendors hence, the parley in the mode of Monsoon Oil & Gas Investment Summit. “(MOGIS 2019) was convened and held at Osborne Foreshore Estate, Ikoyi, Lagos. Notably in attendance are reps from Vfuels Oil &Gas Engineering USA – a full service oil and gas engineering, design, and fabrication firm that specializes in modular process equipment; Cakasa Nigeria Company Limited – an indigenous trailblazer in the provision of engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) services to the Nigerian oil, gas, and industrial infrastructural clients; Bureau Veritas Nigeria – a global leader in Testing, Inspection and Certification (TIC) services; other industry players and other allied stakeholders such as the United Bank for Africa (UBA) – a leading pan-African financial services group; investors; insurers and legal practitioners. “The way forward for MESH after this familiarization forum and assurance of financing, is the application to the Honourable Minister of Petroleum Resources (HMPR) to obtain a Licence-To-Establish (LTE) through the capable Petroleum Regulatory Agency of Nigeria, Department of Petroleum (DPR) with the following strategic documents as follows – Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA); Concept Design and Project Feasibility Study. Estimated time for take – off is,” the company said. As part of the strategy to reposition the Nigeria Oil and Gas industry, a roadmap of short and medium term priorities aimed at developing a stable and enabling Oil and Gas landscape with improved transparency, efficiency, stable investment climate and a wellprotected environment, tagged “7big wins” was developed and launched by the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari in October 2016. The fourth initiative in the roadmap, “Refineries and Local Production Capacity” seeks to transit Nigeria from being an import dependent nation into a net exporter of refined petroleum products. Thus, presenting huge investment opportunities in the mid – downstream sector that will result in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth and jobs creation. A key component of this initiative is Government support for the establishment of third party financed greenfield and modular refineries for incountry petroleum products sufficiency that will stimulate products export. It is the intention of government that the refineries should be scalable and located within refinery