●DPR compiles list of inactive assets for transmission to MPR The Federal Government at the weekend made good its promise to revoke tonnes of dormant oil acreages worth over $2 billion, which are lying fallow in the hands of international oil companies (IOCs) in the country. While most of the assets are tied down by legal challenges, a number of them are inaccessible by the IOCs due to conflict or because they have eroded in commercial values. A correspondence exchanged between the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), sighted by New Telegraph at the weekend, showed that the industry regulator had already compiled list of the assets for onward transmission to the ministry. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, had earlier disclosed moves by the Federal Government to reclaim dormant oil blocs from multinational oil companies operating in the country. Fielding questions from journalists at the just concluded Nigeria International Petroleum Summit in Abuja, Kachikwu maintained that this was part of grand plan for renewal of expired leases. The Ministry of Petroleum Resources, the minister said, decided to renew oil and gas leases six months before their expiration, which also dovetails into efforts to reclaim dormant assets. The compilation of dormant asset, checks by this newspaper showed, is the first major step in the move to revoke the assets. The ministry had already raked in $1.4 billion through this effort, and Kachikwu added that the target was to hit $2 billion from application for leases renewal. The minister, who expressed worries over the number of oil and gas fields that were sitting idle in the portfolios of international oil companies operating in the country, said: “We will still continue to be worried about a lot of our fields that are lying fallow in the hands of multinationals. As we renew leases, we are going to be looking at how you can do it yourself or we come in to help you to release some of those fields so local players will get a sizeable hold into some of the fields that are not commercial for the majors. “We have tonnes and tonnes of acreages that are just lying down; nothing can be done about them. They are tied up by legal challenges. We need to sort of open up the fields.” Kachikwu, who revealed that indigenous operators’ contribution to national oil production was currently around 11 per cent, said he would like to see it grow to about 30 per cent in the next couple of years.