A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Dele Belgore, yesterday opened his defence to a N450 million alleged fraud charge slammed on him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) at a Federal High Court in Lagos. Belgore is currently standing trial alongside a former Minister of Planning, Professor Abubakar Sulaiman on a 9-count amended charge bordering on the alleged offence before Justice Mohammed Aikawa. In his evidence-inchief, he debunked allegation by the anti-graft agency that he laundered the money.  According to him, on 26th March, 2015, he was invited by manager of bank where the money was kept to take delivery of the cash, but ended up leaving the bank without the money. Belgore, who claimed to be the Kwara State Coordinator of former President Goodluck Jonathan re-election campaign, disclosed that he did not collect the N450 million because on getting to the bank, he realised that the money was too huge for his car, a Toyota Prado jeep. He said: “I indicated to the bank manager that I could not collect the money and I gave two reasons.  First, I said this money was coming two days before the election. All the stakeholders and party members were aware of the arrival of the money and therefore, I did not consider it safe to move such a huge amount of money out of the bank in the middle of the night.  “The second reason was that I did not come prepared to receive and take away such a large amount of money, as I came only in my vehicle, a Toyota Prado jeep. “As I said earlier, the heap of cash that I saw in the bank’s loading bay was at least three to four feet high. So, I told the bank manager that if it took a bullion van to transport the cash from the Central Bank of Nigeria to the bank, there was no way I would be able to evacuate those funds with my Toyota Prado.” Belgore added that following a long argument between him, Suleiman and the bank manager, the manager told them to sign for the money and agreed to keep the money in the bank’s vault. “After signing the document, I left the bank without the money. I did not take a penny out of the bank; I left the bank empty-handed,” he said.  Further hearing in the matter was subsequently adjourned to 28th February, 2019 after Belgore’s lawyer, Ebun Shofunde (SAN) requested for some time to look at the CCTV footage of the events that took place within the banking hall on 26th March, 2015 when his client and Suleiman were there