Oil marketers and private importers in Nigeria on Tuesday demanded total liberalisation of the downstream sector as a major measure to end the culture of waste on fuel subsidy. The Federal Government has appropriated a whopping N305 billion for fuel subsidy in the 2019 budget and the stakeholders unanimously on Tuesday declared that until the downstream sector of the oil sector is fully liberalised, the subsidy on imported refined products will continue to be a recurring factor in Nigeria’s energy mix. Emphasising  the need for government to have a re-think on the measure to deregulate and libralised the downstream, the stakeholders including Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) and Depot And Petroleum Products  Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMAN) said that only this could pave the way for more attractive investments in the sector. The unfettered private sector participation and investment, they said in a statement, would be impossible with the current regime of highly regulated downstream market. Chief Executive Officer/Executive Secretary, MOMAN, Mr. Clement Isong, said that the downstream petroleum industry regulations should be in line with international best practice. The implementation and compliance with these regulations, he said, would feature the the concept of cost recovery and competitive returns on investment. All these would ensure the sustainability of the downstream petroleum industry, Isong said. “As the market players grow their business, they will increasingly become exposed to risk management challenges and will move their capital to areas where return matches the risks. We recommend that government should deregulate pump prices and focus on enforcing compliance with adequate regulations on health, safety, environment and quality,” he said. President Muhammadu Buhari had in December, 2018 said that N305 billion has been earmarked for petrol subsidy in the 2019 budget proposal. Buhari stated this in his budget presentation speech to a joint session of the National Assembly in Abuja. “We have earmarked N305 billion equivalent to one billion US dollars for under-recovery by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation on Premium Motor Spirit in 2019,” he said. Isong however said that only total deregulation would save the situation. Contending that doing so will help attract more investments to the oil sector, he said only deregulation would encourage the establishment of private refineries and other related infrastructure in the country. The Executive Secretary, DAPPMAN,  Mr. Olufemi Adewole, added that the rise in the landing cost of petroleum products has renewed the calls for the full deregulation of the downstream subsector of the nation’s oil and gas industry, ’ The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Adewole said,has been the sole importer of petrol into the country for more than a year as private oil marketers stopped importation due to shortage of foreign exchange and increase in crude oil prices. This has made the landing cost of the product higher than the official pump price of N145 per litre. “In the downstream sector, the NNPC continued to ensure increased Premium Motor Spirit supply and effective distribution across the country. In pursuit of sustained seamless distribution of petroleum products and zero fuel queues across the nation, the corporation has continued to maintain an eagle eye on the daily stock of PMS,” the corporation said in its latest monthly report. “Federal Government had resorted to subsidy regime following an increase in the landing cost of petrol, with the NNPC, which was responsible for about 90 per cent of the importation of the product, bearing the latest subsidy cost on behalf of the government. Also, the National President of IPMAN, Mr. Chinedu Okoronkwo, said that total deregulation of the downstream sector would also attract more investment, generate more jobs and reduce the pressure on foreign reserves. Okoronkwo stressed the need for total deregulation and liberalization of the downstream market to address the persistent challenges in the oil and gas industry. He said that it is expects that deregulation of the downstream move will lead to improved supply, competition and eventually drive down pump prices, as well as encourage investments in refineries and other parts of the downstream sector. The challenges with procuring forex significantly affected marketers’ ability to import petrol in recent times, Okoronkwo said, adding; “Thus, by liberalizing the market, the government expects importers to find ingenious ways to procure forex from autonomous sources and improve product availability. 