•Losses could rise to $500m next Saturday  Aviation and travel were hard hit as the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) postponed Nigeria’s Presidential election less than six hours to the commencement of voting.  According to the Managing Director of Aglow Aviation, Mr. Tayo Ojuri, the postponement would have an adverse impact on the aviation which will directly affect the economy. Ojuri disclosed that it would be difficult to quantify the losses now, but hinted that the losses could be over $250 million (about N90billion) which he said affected airlines, over 150 concessionaires, service providers, airport authority, car rentals and others. For next week, when the elections are expected to hold, over $500 million (about N180billion) would have been lost for the two Saturdays.  He stated that because of the postponement, all local and international flights were cancelled especially those who operate day flights likes of Virgin Emirates, Ethiopia, Rwandair among others. Ethiopian Airlines three days ago stated in a statement that it will not operate to Nigeria because of the election; a huge loss to the carrier and airports that it flies to.   The airports have automatically lost over $10, 000 (N3,590,000) from the $50 (N 17,950) each passenger pass as Passenger Service Charge (PSC) on over 200 passengers.  The airline also operates to Abuja, Enugu and Kano airports. The only unaffected airlines are likes of British Airways, Lufthansa, KLM and Air-France because they operate night flights. “You can now see how much money will be lost due to this cancellation, because ordinarily if not for election there will not be reason for that mass flights cancellation or rescheduled.”  Apart of from the flights cancellation which affects both passengers and cargo, every other aviation activities were also affected, changing of flights, potential queue up at immigration for check in, and backlog builds up, which could have a domino effect. In fact it is big shocks to hear this postponement because if not for the election aviation activities will be normal as it is always be.  Ojuri noted that the postponement should have been announced early than the five hours to the election time; that might have given airline time to get back to their normal operations. Aside that, domestic airlines may have lost over N1 billion today. The figure according to Ojuri could even be more considering the catalytic effect it would have on concessionaires, service providers and other small businesses.  Spokesman for Air Peace, Chris Iwarah told New Telegraph that they had to make sacrifice of cancelling about 90 flights scheduled for today due to general election. “At the time, the flights were scheduled, we did not know the election would be fixed for February 16. While we thought it right to make the sacrifice as part of our contribution to the development and stability of our dear nation.  It is unfortunate that the sacrifice eventually amounted to nothing.” He stated that this would not discourage them from continuing to be part of efforts to give the country the best On his part, Banji Ola, spokesman for Arik Air, said he could not put an amount to what the airline had lost for not being able to fly on Saturday.  He, however, explained that for those who had booked flights for this Saturday when no election was previously scheduled for, the airline was ready to reschedule the trips for the passengers. “But if there are those that insist on having their money back we will refund them,” he said.