It was wailing and gnashing of teeth yesterday at the Kolapo Ishola Estate, Akobo area of Ibadan residence of the late former Secretary General of the Nigeria Football Federation, Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi, who passed on in the early hours of yesterday at the University College Hospital, Ibadan.
According to some neighbours of the area, the 66 year old ‘Skippo’ as he was fondly called, was hale and hearty on Saturday when he drove himself to the UCH for medical check-up. He had told some of his neighbours and relatives to rest assured that he was just going to take a day rest at the hospital and come back home on Sunday to continue his rest which was not to be. New Telegraph’s visit to the residence of the former Chairman of Osun State Football Association yesterday recorded an empathic spectacle as the wife and children broke down in tears, refusing to grant any audience to the reporter. The atmosphere was so sombre as neighbours were seen standing about in dejected mood. Speaking with New Telegraph, a very close friend of the deceased, Alhaji Raheem Olatunji (a veteran Sports Photo journalist) said he was shocked to hear of the death of his friend who he said was to play table tennis with him on Saturday.
“I cannot believe the story when I was briefed this morning. In fact, I was just helpless as I was calling death, death many times without number. Actually, I was called this morning by Dr. Amos Adamu who asked me to call and confirm the story and I started calling his number but none of his calls was picked. I decided to call his wife’s number but she did not pick as well. Then I decided to come around and on getting here I met this sad and ugly incident. “I still cannot believe this because we spoke regularly on phone. I still called him last week Thursday, when we both agreed to meet in my house to play table tennis as usual. But I was called today by someone outside of our state that he had died. So how can I believe that someone that promised to be in my house on Saturday is now at the morgue without a serious ailment nor an accident?” Olatunji lamented.
A family friend to the deceased family who pleaded anonymity also said “In fact, I do still not believe it because it was Baba that drove himself to the UCH on Saturday evening, and he was asked to have a day bed rest.
“We were at the hospital on Sunday and it was Baba who told us including Mama his wife, to go home and sleep assuring that nothing would happen. He said we should come earlier today to come and pick him so that he could be at home to rest. It was on getting to the UCH this morning that we could not see Baba on bed and we were told that Baba’s remains had been packed to the morgue as we were told that he had died”, the neighbour recalled with shaken voice