The Returning Officer collating the results for Imo West Senatorial election, Prof. I.I. Ibeawuchi has said he declared Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo state winner in the Imo West Senatorial election under duress. Ibeawuchi had been held hostage at the collation centre for Imo West Senatorial Election at Orlu. Governor Rochas Okorocha is alleged to have been  behind the siege. Announcing the result, Ibeawuchi said: “I am announcing this result under duress. I have been held here since yesterday. All I want to do is to give them the result they want and save my life and go home to my family.” Ibeawuchi collated the result of the 9th local government in Orlu at about 9pm before suspicions and questions of credibility were raised concerning the result. He had then contacted the Resident Electoral Commissioner for the state, Prof. Francis Ezeonu who directed him to stop the collation and proceed to the INEC state headquarter in Owerri for clarifications. Not too long after that, Governor Rochas Okorocha stormed the collation centre with a retinue of security men and other loyalists suspected to be thugs, chased out people from the hall including journalists and insisted the RO would not leave until he declared the results in contention. Prof. Ibeawuchi who resisted the Governor’s order had been held in Orlu since yesterday by the Governor’s men, against his wish. Briefing newsmen this Monday morning, Jones Onyereri, the PDP senatorial candidate for Imo West in a news briefing told journalists that Okorocha had manipulated the process and brought in fake results but when issues surrounding the credibility the results were raised, the RO noticed that the results were questionably inconsistent and stopped the collation. “The governor was shamelessly allocating figures arbitrarily to himself. Like he had always done, Okorocha was ambushing electoral officers and forcing them to rewrite the result in his favour, in some areas he enforced manual accreditation and now wants to force the results on INEC. This is tragic and this is not how the process works. Regrettably, the governor has held the RO since yesterday, intimidating and threatening him. As we speak, we fear for the welfare of Prof.Ibeawuchi” Contacted also, the REC, Prof. Francis Ezeonu confirmed that Ibeawuchi was yet to return to Owerri. He said: “It is really sad, but we have sent out people to bring back Prof. Ibeawuchi to Owerri. ” Inspite of the sabotage and intimidation we have suffered in the course of this election, we have resolved to deliver a credible election to Imo people. But sadly across the state, INEC officials are being attacked and harassed to change results of a concluded election. If not for the activities of these politicians we should have had all our results declared by Sunday. They want us to change a result that has already been transmitted. They do not know that the electronic copies of these results have been transmitted and they still trying to force my staff to alter results. We shall resist this. In Isiala Mbano for instance, my workers who were returning to Owerri, we nearly killed. We are really saddened this development, but we shall not allow anybody to taint the credibility of this commission.”