On February 14 every year, people indulge in activities to mark what is called Valentine’s Day. Although Valentine’s Day emerged from the need to share and show love to one another, many guys and ladies perceive Valentine’s Day celebration as a license for fornication and adultery.
Valentine period is a period when marriage proposals fly around like birds in the air but majority of such proposals are driven by lust and are actually fake. So, Sister, there is this guy that suddenly assumes he is the best man to be your husband. He comes telling you about engagement and wedding without courtship. Please, be careful.
If you are a responsible and godly spinster, there are certain qualities that you need to dread in this guy that is making a marriage proposal.
1. IMPATIENCE: There are many things in marital relationship that require a husband’s patience. If he cannot wait to give you time to consider his proposal, it means he is not a patient person. He is most likely, an opportunist who wants to rush into the relationship and rush out. Then, what will be your fate?
If he is asking you to have sex with him before marriage, it suggests that he may not be patient with you on sexual matters in the actual marriage. Enjoyable sexual intercourse in marriage requires enough romance and foreplay. A man who is impatient has no time for foreplay and in most marriages, the woman is left to suffer in silence. If you are a victim, you need godly counsel. Impatient husband is the reason that so many wives today, never get to reach orgasm in sexual relationship with their husbands. An evidence of love is patience. If he loves you, he should be patient with you.
You need to check this guy’s patience level. Is he patient enough to scrutinize projects before embarking on them? Does he act on impulse or jump into gigantic projects only to end up wasting resources and regretting his actions? Don’t marry this impatient man, especially if he is the type that ignores your advice before the failure.
Is he desperate to get rich and do just anything to bring money to himself without minding legality or authenticity of the process? Don’t accept his marriage proposal because he can even use you for money ritual in future.
2. LYING: If a guy is not truthful, don’t accept his marriage proposal. There is a notion from the devil that ladies enjoy men who lie to them. If you are a lady and you share such notion or attitude, then, do not expect a happy married life. If you desire a happy marriage, don’t accept marriage proposal from a liar. The truth is that anyone that lies to someone he or she claims to love, can actually sell or even kill the person.
If he lies to you, he will need another lie to cover the one he told earlier. It is even difficult for a lair of a guy to pretend that he is a truthful person. He says something that is not true. The next time, he is saying something else because he has forgotten what he said earlier. I mean, the danger signals are usually very clear. This is why I sometimes blame ladies who fall for such obvious traps.
Don’t deceive yourself by saying you will change him because you cannot change any man. It is only God that can change a man with the power in his word and he does it when and how he wants it done, and not according to your timing or dictates, except if his mercy speaks.
So, once you discover his lying skills, make up your mind never to marry a child of the devil. Jesus said to such man: “You are of your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father’s desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies” (John 8:44).
3. UNBELIEVER STATUS: When the Bible says, “Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion hath light with darkness” (2nd Corinthians 6:14), it is because light and darkness cannot just cooperate. It is impossible.
Sister! Please, if a guy does not believe in Christ and Christ’s nature, avoid him in your own interest. The idea of marriage originated from God and you cannot operate it outside of God’s requirements. It will not work. If he does not believe in prayers, righteous living and sanctity of marriage, don’t marry him. If he believes that there is nothing wrong in sleeping with just any lady and that all ladies are the same; if he believes that there is nothing that can be done to prevent extra- marital sex, it means he does not believe in salvation in Christ Jesus and the grace for salvation that appeared to all men and the capability of the Holy Spirit to change man. These things go beyond attending a church. If you believe these things and accept to marry a guy that does not believe them, it means you are an acclaimed believer that wants to yoke yourself with an unbeliever as husband. You need divine mercy to have joy in such relationship.
Many Valentine seasons in the past have left spinsters with truncated destinies following unwanted pregnancies, single parenthood, HIV Aids disease and even ritual killings. I am sure you will not like to experience any of these just because a guy took you out on a valentine date and bought you snacks, food and drinks.
If you desire joy in your marriage, look out for a truthful and patient man. Above all, insist on marrying a godly man and your marriage shall be a testimony in Jesus name.