Senator Effiong Bob, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State, was in the Senate between 2003 and 2011. In this interview, he speaks on the forthcoming general elections and reasons why Governor Udom Emmanuel will be re-elected. Tony Anichebe reports  Why have you sustained your support for Governor Udom Emmanuel over the years against all odds? I support Governor Udom Emmanuel because he is doing a good job and the biggest among them is intangible not like the structures you see or the many roads he has constructed and still constructing, and it is the maintenance of peace and security in the state. Security and peace remain the first among all of his feats. He denounced the activities of cult groups publicly and disassociated himself from it. Comparing what we have today to the immediate past administration, it is evident that insecurity was imbedded in that government with cases of kidnapping and abduction. Nobody was spared, including children and adults. Even my late elder brother was kidnapped, a very fat man he was forced into a boot of a small vehicle and taken to the creeks between Ikot Abasi and River State. After his rescue, he died of the trauma of that incident few years after. Several other prominent citizens were kidnapped, but today, people move freely without fear. Then, even churches were not safe as people were kidnapped during services. We also witnessed shooting and killings even inside churches, but we don’t have such challenges anymore. People sit out late and return early morning to their homes without molestation. No society is totally free from crimes, but heinous and violent crimes such as hired assassination and paid killings of people are snatching of children from parents are no longer there. It remains the governor’s number one achievement because if he has tolerated, condoned or encouraged even by body language, the cultists, who he openly denounced and asked to steer clear of his administration, they would have wrecked havoc in the state. Secondly, in critical sectors like education and health, he has done much. In the health sector for example, he has renovated and constructed St. Luke Hospital Anua; General Hospital, Itu Mbang and the ones in Etinan and Ikono. I visited all these hospitals before renovation, reconstruction and during their commissioning. A sound health goes with sound mind and our people need to be healthy through access to proper medical facilities.. The governor has also done very well in road infrastructure with the construction of over 1,700km of roads. The way and manner he navigated the state during recession is also commendable. In three and half years, he has performed a feat a governor in office for eight years could not do. Many localities without good roads like Eket and Oron are wearing new looks. Now, the offshoot of the peace is the enabling environment which brought about industrialization we have in the state today. Without peace and security, no investor will bring his investment to the state. So, our people should encourage the governor in this regard by citing their own industries, even cottages ones, to help engage more of our youths to enable them provide for themselves and their families. Despite all these you’ve listed, some people, especially members of the opposition believe that the governor has not performed… Running of a government is not easy, but I think the best any governor can do is to contribute his quota and leave the rest to posterity, which is the ultimate judge. Our support for Emmanuel’s second term is to enable him complete those projects he has started like the Coconut Refinery, a novel project, which some people still don’t understand its importance. We are talking about the industrial and merchandised aspect of getting extreme values from coconut products. The Green Farm House alone is a great project, which will help revolutionize agriculture in the state. The governor’s industrialisation policy is well intended for our people. Citing of industries is not easy because of several hurdles and bottlenecks like obtaining licenses and clearance from several federal government parastatals and agencies. At times, politics come into play and delay approvals, especially when we are in a party that is in opposition at the centre. It is not as smooth as it used to be when PDP was the ruling party at the centre. The governor has also done so much on sports with the citing of mini stadia across the 10 federal constituencies even though some of them are still under construction. l believe that the governor has done very well and deserves support to return for a second term. But it appears that securing a second term may be difficult for the governor given that many political heavyweights in the state left the PDP for the All Progressives Congress (APC), people like Senator Akpabio and Umana Okon Umana, among others… Who are the political heavyweights? Senator Akpabio has contested elections twice, one was to be governor and the second was for the Senate. Umana only made an attempt at the governorship in 2015. Who else is in their camp? Political heavyweights are people like me who have contested and won elections at all levels, including wining at tribunals, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. However for this coming election, we are not interested in anybody’s political weight because they don’t have that. The heavyweight politicians are the people on ground. Elections are done at the units. The people in APC in the state today are strange bedfellows. They can never agree even though they are together in the same political platform and they can hardly trust each other. I can tell you that their core stakeholders here can sit together, but they have irreconcilable differences. Again I don’t think the intention of APC is genuine for the state. How do you react to the claims by opposition parties in the state that the funds received so far are not commensurate with projects or development on ground? Well I am not in government to know how much comes in, but I speak from what I see being done in the state like industries and good roads. I am very satisfied with the government’s performance. Even during recession, salaries and capital projects were ongoing in the state, so the duty of the opposition is to say all they are saying, while government’s duty is to be focused and keep delivering on its mandate. Members of the opposition in the state believes they have “federal might.” How will that impact on the elections? I don’t know what federal might means. Whatever somebody thinks he or she has cannot be greater than God. That is the belief of the governor and members of his administration. Elections will hold at the same time across the country and everybody will face his unit and ward. That over concentration of security agencies in one state during elections to achieve the so called might is not the issue now and it cannot work here. In any case, the federal might cannot take over the people. You cannot rig election without the support of the people. If you carry out any form of manipulation in an area you don’t have the people’s support, it will never work. Go to Ondo State and ask what happened to Akin Omoboriowo in 1983, who ‘won’ election on the platform of National Party of Nigeria (NPN) but could not step into the state from his base in Lagos until the military coup of December 1983. You can never manipulate electoral process without the peoples’ support. Today, PDP is campaigning vigorously across the state for votes and have concentrated on education of voters and why they should vote for the party again. Some people have faulted the recent suspension of the Chief Justice of Nigerian (CJN) at a time elections are around the corner. What is your take on that? It is very unfortunate we are having such issues at a time like this. However, what I will say is that the process of appointing and removing the CJN are clearly stated in the constitution. This is a constitutional matter and no other subservient matter can overrule the constitution. The constitution made it clear that if there is a petition, you go to the National Judicial Council (NJC), which will recommend adequate penalty for any offence. The NJC is empowered to recommend those to be appointed as justices, however, what the judges and justices that will preside over the matter needed now is courage and I believe that nothing should be done to truncate democracy. It will be very costly to start all over again if democracy is truncated. My appeal therefore is that all the stakeholders should rise and speak with one voice to secure our democracy by ensuring peaceful and transparent elections at all levels. More than years of the APC-led Federal Government and what it claims to have achieved, do you think PDP stands a chance of unseating the ruling party? Of course, we have done much to wrestle power from them. We are still on campaigns. Nigerians still remember all their failed promises of making a dollar to one naira, reduction in pump price of petroleum products, bringing down prices of food, reduction in unemployment rate, three million yearly employment, steady electricity and industrialization. Have they achieved anyone? These are lies, they played politics to win the hearts of Nigerians for change, but what we have is chain. Everybody is in chain now, so PDP stands a better chance to unchain Nigerians because the presidential candidate we have is knowledgeable and he has promised to restructure Nigeria and bring peace to the North-East and other parts of the country. As a two term senator, how can the National Assembly overcome its present challenges? The problem is that the legislators are divided among themselves. When there is a threat from external forces, they should be united. In the Senate where I was, anybody who threatened its sanctity was dealt with. In fact if the Senate takes a position and you go contrary to it, the Senate will suspend you indefinitely. So, members of the National Assembly have roles to play because if the house collapses, nobody will be spared. I expect at this point that entire National Assembly should be united in the interest of the nation and stop what the executive is doing to the judiciary irrespective of party leanings because the judiciary is an arm of government which co-exists with the executive and legislative for the purpose of checks and balances.