The results of the Presidential and National Assembly elections held on Saturday in Kaduna in the 23 Local Government Areas of the state were still being collated as at 6pm yesterday. Only the senatorial and House of Representatives result in Kaura Local Government Area, in the Southern part of the state was officially announced as at yesterday evening. The delay in the collation of results in the state was attributed to the late arrival of voting materials in many polling units on Saturday. Meanwhile in the senate election, Kaduna Deputy Governor, Barnabas Bala Bantex of the APC lost to the incumbent senator, Senator Danjuma Lar and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). According to the result, the PDP scored 29,356 while the APC polled 9,071 votes. Results from the seven other Local Government Areas that make up the southern senatorial zone were being awaited before a winner can be finally declared. Results from Kachia, Kagarko, Zango Kataf, Jaba, Jama’a, Sanga and Kauru are still being expected Also in Kaduna Central and Kaduna North senatorial zones, results of the Presidential and National Assembly elections were being collated in the various local government areas. In Kaduna Central Senatorial zone, results of all the elections were still being collated as at 5pm when our correspondent visited the Kaduna North office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at Majajin Gari, close to the Sabon Gari police station in Kaduna metropolis. The Electoral Officer in charge of the office, Habiba Garba Abubakar, said the collation will take some time because three election results were being collated at the same time. She said, “We are doing three things at the same time. We are collating the results for the Senate, the President and for House of Representatives. “For the President, every Local government is doing the collation at this time. At the end of the day, we will take to the the state headquarters of INEC, then from there they will do the collation from all the Local governments and take the results to Abuja”.