Nigerian music superstar, D’banj, surprised his wife, Lineo Didi Kilgrow, with Valentine’s Day gifts on Thursday. In a video shared on Instagram, the “Emergency” singer, who flew out to meet his wife, pretended to be a delivery man, writing: “SURPRISE; She thought it was the Delivery Man… Happy Valentine’s Day Guys make sure you show love especially to yourself. Love you boo and will always do.”
On her own, the wife of Peter Okoye, one half of defunct PSquare, Lola, took to Instagram to celebrate Valentine’s Day with a saucy photo which the mother of two captioned thus: “Happy Valentine’s day! #selflove #loverandafighter #talk#strongwoman.”
In celebrating the lovers’ day, veteran Nollywood actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo, took to Instagram to celebrate with his wife, Jumobi. The actor shared a lovely photo of the two together with the caption: “Adejumobi. Abike. Abiks. Abk.Adumaradan…. See how far we have come… I still don’t deserve you. First words I said to you when I saw your heart for me over 22 years ago, and until this minute I still don’t feel I deserve you. Thank you for always.”
Nollywood star, Stella Damasus and husband, Daniel Ademinokan, also spared time for Valentine as she shared photos of herself kissing her filmmaker husband as they celebrate Valentine’s Day in Spain. “Happy Valentine’s Day from me and my boo to you!” she wrote.
The other half of PSquare, Paul Okoye, shared a throwback photo of himself and his wife, Anita Okoye taken in 2004 when both were students of the University of Abuja.
“Yeh, that’s us. University days. #UniAbuja #2004 cc: @anita_okoye #happyvalentinesday #tbt,” he wrote.
Clearly one of the most expressive and dramatic when it comes to love, Davido, celebrated Valentine’s Day by showering gifts on his girlfriend, Chioma Avril Rowland. With someone playing tunes from a Saxophone underground and two people bearing cakes and other gifts, Davido went all out to celebrate his girlfriend. Nollywood actor, Tony Umez, also delved into the Valentine spirit, sharing a throwback photo of himself locking lips with his wife.
”Throw Back to 14 Feb. 2011 when our love was HOT. Fasttrack to 14 Feb. 2019, our love is MUCH MUCH HOTTER. To the woman who completes me, YOU ARE MY FOREVER VALENTINE. Love you to the MAX on Valentine’s Day,” he captioned it.