Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Logara/Umuohiagu Ward of Ngor Okpala LGA, Imo State have been thrown into mourning following the gruesome murder of their ward chairman, Mr Ifeanyi Ozoemena who was shot dead Tuesday night by unknown gunmen. The slain party chairman who hails from Umuokeada Logara, was said to have been killed in his house barely two hours after he had hosted a well-attended ward meeting of the party in preparation for the rescheduled Presidential and National Assembly elections. The deceased, a father of three kids was killed around 9:00 pm when some daredevil gunmen stormed his house and shot him point blank on the head and belly before fleeing into the night. Community sources revealed that the killers had come in a red coloured Highlander SUV and had patrolled the area for hours before attacking the deceased. Narrating her experience, Mrs. Ozoemena hinted that the killers came when she was having dinner with the husband and called him out of the house through a small boy in the compound. She said that her husband went out to see who was looking for him and did not come back alive. Her words, “After the meeting and people had dispersed, we went in to eat and it was while we were eating between 8:30pm and 9:00pm that a small boy in the compound came and called my husband that he had visitors. “My husband went out to see the person and after staying for some time I went out to know who came to see him only to notice that one of the visitors was dragging him on the trousers. I tried to question why he was being held that way, one of the visitors brought out gun and shot him on his side through his ribs. “Then they dragged him outside the compound and gave him the final gunshot on the forehead and belly and he died instantly and they killers zoomed off. I shouted but no one came to his rescue rather the neighbours fled into hiding on hearing the gunshots.” Wailing profusely, Mrs Ozoemena, who is nursing a baby called on the APC and government at all levels and security agencies to fish out the killers of her husband and bring them to book. It was however gathered that a Police Inspector who had unluckily ran into the killers during their dastardly operation was beaten to an inch of his life and is still fighting for his life in an undisclosed hospital. The Logara Community had in the last week been under siege by men of the underworld who have been prowling the community unrestrained. Only last weekend, a young girl from Awogwu Village in Logara Community was murdered in cold blood by persons suspected to be ritualists after raping her. Her assailants made away with parts of her body and pant. The ward chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Onne Ward 4, Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State, has been shot dead by gunmen. According to a source, the victim, Mr Jona Chu, was ambushed on the road Sunday night while returning to his house. The gunmen were believed… In "Metro and Crime" Fish out killers, Fayemi tells police Gunmen, believed to be assassins, on Wednesday night murdered the treasurer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Moses Adeoye. The assailants invaded Adeoye’s house at Otun-Ekiti in Moba Local Government Area while he was taking dinner. They reportedly shot him in… In "Metro and Crime" Unknown gunmen have shot dead the Ohimini Local Government chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State, Mr. Boniface Okoloho. The deceased was reported to be returning home from a party function when he ran into the unknown gunmen who killed him instantly. The late APC chairman, until… In "News"