An Osun State High Court sitting in Osogbo presided over by Justice Kudirat Akano yesterday sentenced the killers of a student of the Osun State University (UNIOSUN) to death. The accused, AbdulRafiu Zakariyahu (19), Yusuf Kareem, Ayuba Ibrahim, Isiaq Yusuf and AbdulKareem Adeoti, were arraigned on a three-count charge bordering on conspiracy, murder and misconduct with the victim’s corpse. The victim, a 400-level student of Microbiology, Timileyin Sonibare, was murdered on June 26, 2017 at Oke Baale area, Osogbo. They pleaded not guilty to the offences. The state prosecutor ar-gued that the offences contravened provisions of Sections 516, 319(1) and 519 of the Criminal Code Cap 34, Vol. 11, laws of Osun State, 2002. In her judgement, Akano said “with the totality of evidence and statement of the accused, the 1st, 2nd and 3rd accused persons, Zakariyahu, Kareem and Ibrahim, caused the death of the deceased”. The judge held that the 1st convict had admitted in his confessional statement that he killed Timileyin, while the prosecution had proved the case against the second and third as accomplices in the killing. “There was no cogent evidence before the court that the fourth and fifth accused, Yusuf and Adeoti, involved in the killing of the undergraduate student,” the judge ruled. The court, however, convicted the fifth accused,Adeoti, for aiding the escape of a suspect, Yahya, who is now at large, saying “the fifth accused is the godfather of the criminals. “He did not make effort to report to the police after five days he was aware of the killing. He assisted Yahya to escape.” The court, however, discharged the fourth accused who is the leader of Jafariyah, Yusuf, on the premise that there was no evidence against him before the court. Counseltothefirstconvict, A. A. Alayoku, prayed the court to temper justice with mercy on his client, pleading that he was a first offender and very young and that, the convict had learnt his lessons since he was in prison. Counsel to the second, third and fifth convicts, Mr. Kazim Badmus, urged the court to be lenient on the convicts. He said the second and third convicts were young and could be useful to the society. The counsel told the court that the fifth accused was aged and was depended upon by many children and old people, praying the court to consider almost two years that the convicts had been in prison. But Justice Akano said the convicts did not show any mercy to the deceased when they killed him with pestle, cut his head and roasted it with intent to use it for rituals. The judge sentenced the fifth accused to two years imprisonment and also sentenced the first, second and third convicts to seven years jail for conspiracy, two years for misconduct and sentenced them to death for murder