President Muhmadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has scored the highest number of votes cast at former Abia State ghovernor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu’s Polling Unit 002 , Igbere Ward A with 415 votes to defeat the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, who had 10 votes. Kalu’s Polling Unit located in Onu Ibina primary school had the highest number of voters in Igbere just as the former governor, contesting Abia North senatorial contest scored 457 votes against his major challenger, the People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) candidate, Senator Mao Ohuabunwa who scored two votes. However, Kalu has dedicated his victory in the February 23 elections to Abians. Kalu polled 31, 203 votes while Ohuabunwa of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Chief David Ogba of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) got 20, 801 and 11,410 votes respectively. Stressing that his victory in the poll was a testament to therobustgoodwillheenjoyed among the electorate, Kalu expressedgratitude to Nigerians for their support before, during and after the polls. The former governor promised to sustain his philanthropic gestures across the country, saying the people of Abia North would enjoy qualitative, responsive and robust representation during his stint as senator representing Abia North senatorial zone. Kalu said: “The people of Abia North senatorial zone came out en masse to cast their votes for President Muhammadu Buhari, my good self and other APC candidates in the Presidential and the National Assembly elections. “I salute the courage, boldness and patriotism displayed by the electorate in choosing their preferred candidates. “The people of Abia North senatorial zone had been deprived of qualitative representation for many years. “I will use my network of contacts and political dexterity to uplift our communities. “The challenges facing our people have been diligently articulated with possible solutions highlighted. “Having served in different capacities in the public sector, I will bring to bear my experience in discharging my duties. “Politics is not a do-or-die affair and as such I will adopt as always an all-inclusive and participatory approach in my legislative responsibilities. The former governor, while commending the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, the media, international and local observers, civil society organizations and other stakeholders for ensuring a hitch-free and credible poll, promised to live up to expectations. Kalu equally applauded chieftains and members of the APC for demonstrating maturity despite provocation and intimidation by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), stressing that the ideals of the APC were based on genuine leadership and good governance. The Senator-elect also used the opportunity to call on the electorate to vote for Chief Uche Ogah and other candidates of the APC in the March 9 Governorship and House of Assembly elections.