 There are strong indications that the diplomatic relations between Nigeria and the Islamic Republic of Iran, might have received a boost, over the decision of the latter to withdraw her support for the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), otherwise known as the Shiites.
Sunday Telegraph recalls that clashes between the Shiites (IMN members) and security agencies, had led to the death of many, and scores injured. Specifically, the violent confrontation involving the IMN members and the convoy of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai sometime in December, 2015, had culminated in the arrest and subsequent detention of the leader of the IMN, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky.
However, adherents of the Islamic Movement had predicated their protests on the continued detention of El-Zakzaky, who is being held by the State. Though, a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja had granted bail to El-Zakzaky, the Kaduna State Government is prosecuting him for alleged murder. Highly-placed security and intelligence sources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the days of violent protests may be over, as the Iranian regime, which had seemingly propagated its Shiite ideology through the IMN, may have seen the need to forge a better relation with the Federal Government.
Sunday Telegraph gathered that the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), had undertaken discreet diplomatic shuttles, and contacts with High Command and Supreme Leadership Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran. It was further learnt that the ONSA opted for the “non-kinetic” approach, in order to end the violence that had often characterized the Shiites’ protests. Our Correspondent gathered that, as part of the rapprochement, a senior Iranian clergy, Ayatollah Movahedi Kermani, the ephemeral Tehran Friday prayer Imam, had condemned the killings which attended some of the protest marches across some parts of the North and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He was also said to have called on clerics to intervene, with a view to ending further bloodshed. An intelligence source said: “Over the last one year, secret engagements, discreet contacts and cultivations were initiated and facilitated between the Office of National Security Adviser (ONSA) and the High Command and Supreme Leadership Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran on how to contain and manage what another Intelligence Official called: “the violence, menace and confrontations of Islamic Movement of Nigeria led by Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky.” “IMN is seen as the benefactor and vehicle for the import of Iranian Shiite ideology in Nigeria and West African sub-region. “The contacts were successfully done and coordinated by Office of the National Security Adviser. “Series of meetings by Intelligence officials on one hand and officials of Rasuul Aaazam Foundation, (RAAF) led to a breakthrough on the “problems of IMN and Shiite in Nigeria. “RAAF is a Shiite group under the leadership of Hujjatul Islam, Sheikh  Muhammad Nur Dass with its headquarters in Kano and branches all over
the Northern Nigeria.” Another senior security source had claimed: “Sheikh Dass is (arguably) the highest ranking Shiite cleric in Nigeria with mandate to adjudicate religious and temporal issues in the Ja’afari Shiite School. “This makes him higher in the Shiite school and hierarchy than Mr. El-Zakzaky…  “Clericalism is the foundation of the Iranian Islamic Republic. The  confrontation with security forces and the army, in Zaria, Kaduna,  Abuja, Nasarawa etc, necessitated a change of tactics and strategy and the adoption of non-Kinetic warfare. But the IMN has denied that Iran ever supported it, saying the report was an attempt by security agencies, to malign the group. “In the first place, Iran is not bankrolling the Movement,” IMN spokesman,  Musa Ibrahim, said.