…claims new 200m PB, storms to WL  Divine Oduduru emerged the biggest winner for his school, Texas Tech, on Sunday at the Big 12 Championships in Lubbock, Texas after winning the 60m and the 200m with a new Personal Best and a World Lead for the year in the event. To set the ball rolling, Oduduru smashed his PB in the 60m while also creating a new School record for Texas Tech with his feat of 6.52secs before the bigger one in the 200m, erasing the Big 12 200m Meeting Record with an impressive time of 20.08secs – a new World Lead, SR, PB, and the secondfastest time in NCAA history. At the end of the day, the Texas Tech Men’s Track and Field team became overall champions of the Big 12 Indoor Championships with 70 points – their biggest victory in the history of the championships, with Oduduru emerging top winner with 20 points after winning both the 60m and 200m. After his regular celebration of dancing, the former junior international said he never believe he could run so fast in the 200m while also explaining his reasons for dancing after winning a major race. “The celebration is a special one, especially, in Nigeria,” he said after his race. “It’s a way of dancing and appreciating God, like, ‘God, thank you for all you’ve done for me. I’m going to show the world that I’m always grateful to you.’ So that is my dance.’ “I was never thinking I was going that fast in the 200, but when I saw the time, I was like, ‘Woo, that’s a big one. I have to be grateful to God for that.” While also speaking with our correspondent on the telephone, Oduduru said he would be looking forward to a fantastic 2019 season. According to him, he has started very well and hopefully he will be fit ahead of the action packed year with World Championships and All African Games coming up. He added: “I just have to stay healthy because I cannot achieve anything if I am not fit, so I will continue to monitor my health. “I have to maintain my standard when the outdoor season begins and I am working hard to be at the top of my game.”