Member Representing Langtang North, South Federal Constituency in the National Assembly Hon. Beni Lar has alleged that thugs have been imported into Langtang North and Langtang South Local Government Areas of the to disrupt the Presidential and National Assembly elections in Plateau State. Briefing Journalists in Jos yesterday Lar said the invasion of thugs is by the All Progressive Congress APC as a plan to disrupt the PDP, not to votes. “It is not a rumour, there is a serious plan by the APC government both in the state and the Federal to ensure that the elections is rig in Langtang North, Langtang South Local Government Councils of Plateau State which is a stronghold of the PDP in the state” “In Langtang North and South, the people are peaceful, but however we have credible information to show that thugs are being imported into Langtang North and South to disrupt, vandalised and destroy all the Polling Units in the Constituency by the APC government to ensure that the two Local Government witness inconclusive elections. She added that Langtang people are committed to free, fair and credible elections, saying there was no point carrying arms against each other for the sake of winning elections. The Lawmaker who is contesting for the fourth term and daughter of the Pioneer National Chairman of the PDP late chief Solomon Lar disclosed that the Federal Government through the Ministry of the interior has also withdrawn officers of the Civil Defense out of the locality with the plans of rigging in the elections. “We also have information that the Minister of Interior has directed the withdrawal of members of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps out of Langtang North and Langtang South Local Government”. According to Hon. Lar said Plateau State is PDP and everybody knows that Langtang North and South is the PDP stronghold mainly because of the gubernatorial candidate is from Langtang. ” We want peaceful elections in the State, anything that will cause confusion will be rejected by the people, we will not allow anybody to come intimidate us, we will stop rigging in Plateau State”. She said the PDP don’t want a single lost of lives as being plan by the APC administration. “We advise that the security agencies should be fully on the ground to ensure that there is a peaceful election, we do not want a single life lost. We will not allow anybody to come into our territory to intimidate us and stop us from casting our votes.” The National Assembly member, however, calls on security agencies to ensure the safety of lives and properties during the Saturday elections. “The people of Langtang North and South are very peaceful and friendly by nature, we have credible information that political thugs have been imported to disrupt, vandalise and destroy all polling units in Langtang North and South, the stronghold of PDP so that the election will be declared inconclusive. “We have the PDP Governorship candidate, Sen. Jeremiah Useni from Langtang but unfortunately, the Local Government Areas are headed by the Chairmen from the ruling party, who are believed to be in the know of this evil plan.