Senator. Helen Esuene, a former Minister of State for Health and later Minister of Environment and Housing, represented Eket Senatorial District of Akwa Ibom State between 2011 and 2015. In this interview, she speaks on the state of the nation, among other issues. Tony Anichebe reports  You contested for the governorship position of Akwa Ibom State in 2015 on the platform of Labour Party because you felt unsatisfied with the treatment meted to you in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), but you have returned to the party. What informed the comeback? I must say that the era was one experience I would not forget in a hurry, especially our 40 days and 40 nights in Abuja then as members of G22 demanding justice and fair play as regards the 2015 PDP primaries in Akwa Ibom State. During that period, a lot of things happened, which I won’t bore you with. I mean things that made all but just five members of G22 opted for Labour Party. Five people explained that they will not leave PDP for various reasons, but 17 of us agreed in Abuja to join Labour Party. When we returned to the state, it was a different story entirely. It was really never my intention to leave PDP. However, that event made me stayed away for about two years from PDP.
I am happy to be back because two years is enough for emotions to calm. When it come up strongly, it doesn’t allow one to reason well, but when it cools off, you can look at things in better perspectives and more objectively. It is not how it affected me, but what the future holds for others and my state. No matter how you look at it, I have been part and parcel of this state all my life. From the days of old Cross River State till date, I have supported every government. I have always been there for one thing or the other, not necessary paid appointment, but support in various ways. I could not just throw that part of me away, so I decided to come back and allow the sleeping dog to lie. There must have been some form of motivations that spurred your interest to return to the PDP and join in supporting the incumbent administration in the state. Yes, but I must not answer that question without giving credence to the national officers of the PDP, who led strong envoys to my house to talk to me and calm my nerves. It took me many months to arrive at the conclusion that it will be the best thing to do, which is rejoining the party. The reasons are, one, I fought for the governorship slot to be zoned to Eket Senatorial District. I initiated the battle even though it did not come to me. The good thing is that the efforts paid off and I didn’t completely lose out in my struggle.
Secondly, I saw that Governor Udom Emmanuel is doing very well in the state. He has been able to put things in their rightful places. You know the entire duty of government concisely is security of lives and property and welfare of the citizens. If you fail in this aspect, then you have failed woefully. Unfortunately, he came into government when the economy was in bad shape. Prices of crude oil nosedived between 2015 and 2016 and it affected the entire strata of government negatively, hit the entire populace, those of us in the business sector were not spared. So, that was how Governor Emmanuel was baptized into the rough waters of government as the money was no more there.  You used security as a yardstick to measure performance, is the state better secured now than during the previous administration. I am sure that you even know the answer because anybody who has lived in this state in the past 10 years will know that there is a big difference. There was a time people rarely go out of their homes. For me, any time I needed to go out, it was like a big project. I kept up to eight security details. If you come to my home, I have to raise the bungalow within the premises to a storey building to accommodate my security details. That was what we have at the time. I did not go to church for over two years and it was tough. You have to devise all manner of wisdom in the way and manner you conduct you movement around the state. If you listen at campaign grounds of PDP, you will hear testimonies of how people are living now in peace without fear showing that the era of insecurity has fizzled out. How it happened, I do not know, but the truth is that we have gone past that era. Security to me is everything both in your business, private or social life. Once security is intact, things move normally. Today people can stay in their businesses premises till midnight, but before now, by 6.pm, everybody shuts down over fear of the unknown and it affected productivity. As a former senator, how would you rate the performance of Muhammadu Buhari led administration and what are the chances of PDP getting back power at the centre.
Well I will start by saying that just as they wrestle power from PDP in 2015, PDP is poised to wrestle power back from them. The truth about governance is that if you cannot perform, allow another person to try because governance is not an exclusive preserve of an individual or a particular group. We should have sympathy for our country as an entity and that includes people who live in it. The country is in a pathetic state, look at security. Before the Buhari administration came, we were battling Boko Haram. Today the battle has been extended to herdsmen. Some said they are better addressed as terrorists. The problem of Shittes is daily worsening security in the country. Boko Haram is so bold now to take the battle to people’s home including solders’ camp. We are not getting it right. The economy is in shambles with high rate of unemployment. It has been a very tough three years plus. We should pity Nigeria because of posterity. If Mr. A is not getting it right, let Mr. B try. This problem is affecting the entire populace notwithstanding political affiliation. As a senator, you kicked against giving out “handouts” . What is your take on what is obtainable today? Handouts for me is an insult to people. We are very proud people and it is better to empower somebody to take care of himself and children than giving him what to eat at the moment. It is not the right way to live. It should not be a policy government should embrace at all. Giving out monies rather than empowering people is not the best. There is nothing wrong if occasionally you can assist someone who is in need but teach people how to fish rather than giving them fish. We still have an insignificant number of women playing politics at the state and national level. What is the way out for women? Men should give women the chance to showcase their leadership skills too at all level. Even if not in elective position, what about party positions. I always say that as a Senator I did an analysis on all the party position in the country and asked if there is anything wrong in a woman being party secretary and treasurer and others. We have well educated women, so let the men give the women some space to showcase their skills. It will not stop them from being good wives at home.
Men think once you give a woman space she will grow wings, but if a wife wants to grow wings, she will even as an educated woman. But if you encourage your wife, she will be more loving at home and do things with greater joy. So men must give women some space, we have to grow from somewhere, may be from being a party official you get to interact with people to the point that if you opt for election you will no longer be seen as a stranger. Some powerful nations have had female presidents; do you see that happening in Nigeria soon? Yes, we will have one, but when and time is what I don’t know but surely Nigeria will have a female president someday. If you look at every political gathering today, you will discover that women make up of 65 per cent of the population and the power of women cannot be underrated. How would you rate the cohesion among members of the National Assembly today? I am happy, I did not opt to return to the Senate. What is happening there today is unfortunate, the infighting and back stabbing, among others. In the recent past, we played a more refined politics there, a member may tell you he will shut down your bill and may do so and we disagreed to agree, we were more like a family. A few times, voices were raised but we settled amicably and almost immediately. However, when I see the way and manner they play politics in the National Assembly today, I feel pained. There are still echoes of restructuring across the country, do you think it will help solve Nigeria’s problems.
We are in democracy, which means peoples government. The constitution is what is guiding our democracy, but was the constitution written by the people? No! It is a product of the military and they tele- guided the production of our constitution. Nigerians must as a matter of right, produce their own constitution. I believe in one Nigeria and there are a lot we can gain by staying together. The country has to be restructured; we need to sit down and decide how best to restructure the country for the benefit of all Nigerians. You are a former first lady, minister, senator, governorship candidate and industrialist, are you still going to contest for political office, especially presidency since you believe we will soon have female president.
Yes, I still believe someday Nigeria will have female president, but for me, contesting for elective office is over. I will remain active in politics, but will not go for elections again. If appointments come, I can consider it.