The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has blamed the aborted visit of former American president Bill Clinton to Nigeria on provocative statements by members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). This was as the party has called on the Directorate of State Services (DSS) to immediately arrest Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai and his Zamfara State counterpart, Abdualaziz Yari, for hate speech. Clinton who was due to Nigeria on Monday to witness the signing of second peace accord between President Muhammadu Buhari and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), respectively, cancelled it at the last minute, for fear that his visit might be given political coloration. Atiku in a statement by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, regretted “the harassment of friends of Nigeria by the Buhari administration and its agents and privies,” whom he said have taken to releasing and uttering statements threatening diplomats and election observers. The former vice president reminded APC members that “Nigeria has long-standing friends and it will be myopic to burn those bridges on the altar of desperation. “We quite understand the reasons given by President Clinton, coming especially after the unfortunate ‘body bag’ comment emanating from the All Progressives Congress.” He called on President Buhari to call his party members to order, and reaffirmed his commitment to peace and democracy. Atiku stated that he had looked forward to Clinton’s visit, and wished the situation on the ground were more ideal as to make his visit more conducive. A spokesperson of the PDP presidential candidate, Tim Ogwuru said el-Rufai’s ‘body bag’ threat to international observers was an insult on the collective responsibility of the country. He also noted that Zamfara governor is still threatening that there would be no election in the state unless APC candidates are on the ballot papers, despite a subsisting court order. Ogwuru further called on the DSS to invite el-Rufai and Yari to clarify their statements even though they still enjoy immunity. “We are not saying they should be prosecuted immediately due to the immunity they enjoy presently but they should be made to explain the statements they made,” he added. He regretted that neither the presidency nor the APC has reprimanded them, instead, the party and the presidency have come in defense of the Kaduna governor. “If they are not reprimanding them if they are not saying that what they are saying and is not acceptable, they are embolden other public officers to toe the same line. “I heard what presidency said on this matter, it is not encouraging at all; that el-Rufai is advancing patriotism. I say, he is advancing hatred and digression. “The presidency is being misguided. For the presidency to come and support him, to me both the presidency and el-Rufai do not understand what governance is all about. They do not understand the monumental seriousness of el-Rufai’s comment,” he said.