Allegations of a plot to manipulate the electoral process is one thing the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is contending with as it goes into the elections. Johnchuks Onuanyim writes on the allegations against the party and its defence  The perception that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will rig the forthcoming elections is a strong one that the party has been battling with.
At every point of the campaign, the party is confronted with allegations of a plot to manipulate the electoral process by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
But, a former Inspector General of Police and chieftain of the APC, Suleiman Abba, was handy over the weekend to defend the ruling party over the allegation. Abba, who spoke at the “Walk for Buhari Campaign” event organised by the wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, said rigging is alien to the APC. According to him, the allegation of rigging against APC by PDP is the kettle calling pot black. The former boss, who was disqualified by APC from contesting for the party’s senatorial ticket in Jigawa State, said: “The opposition is engaged in allegations of rigging. We should ask them: Who are the mothers of rigging? APC does not know how to rig election.
He is not alone in defence of the APC. From the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; presidential spokespersons, Femi Adesina and Garba Shehu; Director, Strategic Communications of the APC Presidential Campaign Council (PCC), Festus Keyamo (SAN), APC Deputy Director General (Coordination), Arc. Waziri Bulama; APC National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu and the governors on the platform of party, have been defending APC on the rigging claims by the PDP. They said achievements of the Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government has done well sand o has no reason to contemplate rigging.
They also cited the outcome of elections conducted since APC came into power to justify why the party will not interfere in the electoral process.
According to them, governorship elections conducted in Kogi, Bayelsa, Anambra, Ondo, Ekiti and Osun states by the present administration were free, fair and credible and should be a pointer that APC is willing to bequeath credible elections to Nigeria.
President Buhari has equally repeatedly assured the international community of his administration’s willingness to conduct free, fair and credible elections. But, those accusing the ruling party of plotting to manipulate the electoral process in its favour, are of the view that the ruling party is in connivance with some institutions of government.
According to them, the appointments and deployment of some persons in the relevant agencies like INEC and the security agencies are pointers that the present administration is plotting to rig the elections.
Another point the opposition party is hinging on its claim that APC intends rigging the election, is the refusal by the President to sign the amended Electoral Act into law.
Also, the arraignment of the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen and his suspension on the twilight of the election is a development the opposition party is not comfortable with. The APC and the PDP have traded and are still words over the suspension of Onnoghen. For PDP, this action was taken by APC to forestall anything against rigging.
On deployment of personnel, the PDP, Coalition of United Progressive Parties (CUPP) and some other persons have criticized the retention and deployment of one of INEC’s national commissioners, Mrs. Amina Zakari.
Also, the recent redeployment of commissioners of Police, which saw Kayode Egbetokun, a former Chief Security Officer to a former governor of Lagos State and National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, being deployed to Kwara State as acting commissioner of Police is a pointer that the APC is vehemently interested to rig the elections, according to the PDP.