Saying there are lots of great men and women of God this part of the world has produced will no doubt amount to stating the obvious. However, anyone who has not lost touch with happenings around will not find it difficult to recognise there is a woman of God who has become topic of discussion in many places for some time now. Aside being known as a woman of the pulpit, the personality in question, Reverend Mother Esther Ajayi could be said to have become synonymous with charity as a philanthropist.  As things stand, this United Kingdom based founder of Cherubim & Seraphim, known as Love of Christ Generation Church, Reverend Mother, Esther Ajayi , is one of the most celebrated individuals around at the moment and this honour is coming her way based on her exemplary gesture as a vineyard worker and humanitarian. Knowing there are different solutions to various problems, Ajayi understands dishing out the word of God is not what is given to the needy but to cater to their needs and in this vein, she has performed to such to an incredible height that not only has she become the darling of the ordinary people, even the high and mighty scramble to identify with her as she’s now celebrated wherever she finds herself. Esther is reputed to be so distinct in her charity work that creed or tribe never dictates who gets what as she has ceaselessly lifted individuals as well as groups of people to a level of admiration.  In her bid to touch more lives, the woman recently took her gospel of humanity to Sierra Leone where she launched Esther Ajayi Foundation, and the people are yet to come in terms with the fact that an individual could be that selfless as she put smile on the faces of many through various means available within her means. On the other hand, Esther’s lovely husband, Reverend Ademuyiwa became a year older and as wife who values her crown, she made sure the birthday anniversary didn’t go unnoticed but ensured it was celebrated in a way that will be memorable even as they were on evangelical mission to Sierra Leone. To celebrate her friend, partner and husband of many years, Iya Adura, as she also called laid out a royal feast. The venue for the classy party was the scenic The Place Resort, Tokeh Beach, Freetown. Unarguably, United Kingdom based founder of Cherubim & Seraphim, known as Love of Christ Generation Church, Reverend Mother, Esther Ajayi, is one of the most celebrated individuals around at the moment and this honour is coming her way based on her exemplary gesture. In the same vein, top Juju singer,… In "Celeb Lounge" In a bid to give Nigerian youths useful tips to become successful in business or professions, the Esther Ajayi Foundation has launched the Youth Empowerment Seminars (YES) where it will be teaching entrepreneurship. The foundation, which is the brainchild of Rev. Mother Esther Ajayi, General Overseer, Love of Christ C&S… In "News" The Liberian Vice President, Senator Jewel Howard-Taylor, has called on African nations to embrace charity and pay more attention to the less privileged in the society. The Liberian number two citizen made the remark during a welcome reception held in her honour at the Sheraton hotel, Ikeja, Lagos by the… In "Politics"