It has been dark and menacing in Asaba, the Delta State capital, in the past 30 days. That is no thanks to the rampaging activities of men of the underworld, which led to the death of three persons, all in their middle ages. The clash became extremely fierce on Friday, February 8, when a man, nicknamed ‘Aboy’, in his early 30s, who allegedly participated in the killing of the hit man of an opposing cult group, was traced to his kiosk along the popular Ibusa Junction, off Nnebisi road in Asaba, where he usually hawked bread and he was shot at a close range on the forehead. Men of the Delta State Police Command are yet to unravel the secret behind it and smoke the perpetrators from their hideouts. The gruesome murder, which happened around 7:30p.m, immediately sent panic among his fellow bread hawkers and triggered pandemonium among passersby within the ever busy junction. The information that ‘the boys are at it again o!’ soon went round the metropolis like a wild fire, and forced residents to retire home for fear of the unknown. The prolonged high-pitched cry of pain of Aboy’s wife, whose house is a stone’s throw to the spot where he was killed, on his lifeless body, could only add to the panic. Aboy’s deformed father could not hold his breath as he said, “I have finally become the taunt of my neighbours, the laughing stock of my enemies.” A close associate to Aboy’s wife lamented that the victim failed to heed to the earlier warning for him to steer clear of the streets of Asaba until a dead member of the warring faction is buried. “He was so confident of himself. Maybe, a misleading belief was imposed on him to feel that he possessed a secret charm to pass any adversity. He must have forgotten in a hurry that he was dealing with bad boys like himself ”, the source said. His assailants were said to have disguised as customers in a tricycle and beckoned on him to bring bread for them to buy. But they unleashed terror on him and returned to their hideouts to celebrate the success of their reprisal attack. An eyewitness told the South- South Focus that his attackers, who were three in number, including the Keke-driver, did not come down from the tricycle or switch off its ignition during the daring adventure. She said: “The boys called for the biggest loaf of bread. The head he (the victim) bent inside the tricycle to give them the bread was where they shot him twice. He died on the spot because the attack was at a close range. They later shot into the air to scare away perceived enemies and zoomed off. His wife came, gasping and panting, before she fell on his dead body, wailing and gnashing her teeth.” Prior to this, another middle-age boy was also gunned down at Parkinson Street, behind the Stephen Keshi Stadium, off Nnebisi Road, by a factional cult group over betrayal. The battle was between members of the ‘Aiye’ and ‘Red-Beret’ confraternities. For fear of the unknown, residents scampered for safety, even as shop owners and night life cruisers around the locality promptly withdrew to their beds. The victim, simply identified as Chizzy, allegedly renounced cultism and was bent on leaking the plot to kill ‘Aboy’ by his group to revenge the killing of one of their group members who was killed by Aboy’s group. They said it was against their walking principles for a member to claim to have repented, having participated in their numerous atrocities, and be leaking their secrets to none members. At this, they traced him (Chizzy) to his mother’s house at Parkinson. He tried to escape but was chased with guns to the end of road, which was a closed street, beaten to coma and shot in the presence of his mother, who followed them until they caught up with him. She said: “They ambushed him in his mother’s house at Parkinson. When he was being pursued, his mother was running after them, shouting ‘don’t kill him, he is my only son. Can someone help me? I am finished.’ But they caught up with him at the back of the stadium, shot him in the eye and fled the scene. He died in his mother hands”, an onlooker from a storey building said. Aboy was said to have been killed in a ‘no retreat, no surrender’ revenge. The cult member that was allegedly killed by his cult group was to be buried the day after he was shot. “Their tradition demands that before a hit-man, who was killed on duty by a factional cult group is buried, a staunch member of such factional group must go down as well. This is done as a mark of honour and in loving solidarity of a falling hit-man by his associates”, a sympathizer said. Barely 48 hours to this, a deadly member of one of the cult groups, one Okonkwo, popularly called ‘Capone’, among his group members, was waylaid and murdered along Umunaji Quarters’ road within the state capital. The rampaging cult wars may not be unconnected with the killings of police officers within Asaba metropolis in the past one year. No fewer than four policemen have been shot during ‘Stop and Search’ routine between Cable- Point to Abraka and Nnebisi road, for unknown reasons. Unfortunately, till date, police authorities in the state have not informed members of the public of any success story. An indigene of Asaba, however, linked the killings to politics. He said the brains behind cult war in Asaba Anti-Cult Group , who are benefitting from the game, did nothing to end it. The latest was the gruesome murder of an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) at Umuachi-Afor community in Ndokwa axis of the state by unknown gunmen. The officer, attached to Ashaka Divisional Police Headquarters, had led a squad to the hideouts of criminals in the locality but was hit by a bullet when the suspects suddenly opened fire on the police team. Although, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Andrew Aniamaka, said he has not be briefed about the February 8 saga when contacted, he insisted that the days of the killers of the ASP, who have been terrorizing farmers, motorists and market women by kidnapping and destroying their farm crops, are numbered. He said the ASP died at the Emergency Unit of an undisclosed hospital where he was rushed to and maintained that the command had reinforced with the assistance of local vigilante groups to calm the situation in Asaba and close down on the killers of the police officer.