...hails Mikel, Ighalo’s move
…insists Eagles won’t underrate Egypt without Salah   Super Eagles General Coordinator, Patrick Pascal, has warned national team players that talent and form will not be enough for them to make the final squad for the African Cup of Nations slated for Egypt later in the year.
Pascal told our correspondent that Super Eagles players must demonstrate high level of good conduct and commitment to make the final cut for the tournament.
He said the Nigeria Football Federation and Coach Gernot Rohr had prioritised the competition and were leaving no stone unturned to ensure a successful outing.
“The coach has always emphasised that he has a team not individuals in Eagles; he wants all the players in his team to play regularly for their clubs and come and fight for shirt in the squad. However, a good form is not enough, we want to see your conduct, we want to see your commitment and that is why we are certainly going to have more than 23 players for the camping so that all of those who tick all the criteria we are looking for will make the final cut,” he said.
The team will face the Egypt in an international friendly on March 26, four days after they confront Seychelles in the AFCON qualifier, and the Pharaohs will not be without their talismanic striker Mohamed Salah but Pascal said the absence of the Liverpool hit man wouldn’t make the Eagles complacent.
“We are playing against Egypt not Mo Salah; we had played several games without our key players but nobody will remember that because this is a national team. With or without Mo Salah the Eagles will go out there and do well.
“The two matches are very important to us because the next FIFA free window is the last before the summer and we have to take the Seychelles and Egypt games very seriously,” he added.
The former Eagles defender also praised the move of two of Nigerian key players Mikel Obi and Odion Ighalo during the transfer window. He said Mikel chased happiness to Middlesbrough while Ighalo joined another big Chinese club Shehua Shanghai to ensure playing time.
“The most important thing for people at Mikel’s level is happiness; money can’t motivate him again because he has it. So, Mikel returning England with a Championship side is because he wanted happiness and he is getting it with the way he has been performing for the team.
“For Ighalo, all of us in the national team are very happy for him; he was in China when he scored six goals for us in the AFCON qualifiers which means churning out good performance is not about where you are playing but your quality and commitment as a player,” he said.