The Lagos State Government has finally lifted the ban on construction of petrol filling stations in the state, thereby unveiling new guidelines for location of gas plant and filling stations. MURITALA AYINLA reports  It is generally believed that most Nigerians have poor attitude to safety. This, according to many experts, was responsible for high disasters statistics recorded in the country. While most of such disasters in other developed or perhaps more safety conscious countries are inevitable, in Nigeria, man-made disasters are usually responsible for loss of lives and property. Decisions are taken by government authorities and individuals without safety concerns. Hence, time and resources which are supposed to be spent on disaster mitigation and prevention are wasted in the management of avoidable catastrophe caused by negligence. One of the frequent tragedies is inferno arising from petrol filling stations, which many experts blamed on indiscriminate and preponderance of their locations without consideration for safety regulations. Irrespective of the location, filling stations are sited in all the nooks and crannies of most Nigerian towns and city metropolis.
In Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, what appears to be the only concern or determinant for sitting a filling station is the market, where the petrol owner feels he would make more sales regardless of the topography or location of site to residential areas. To these businessmen and women, safety of filling stations and that of the community do not matter, so long, he or she can make good sales in the area. Environmental impact assessment, size of the land and other safety regulations which should be first things to consider are constantly jettisoned, once the station owners can ‘bribe’ their ways to get government’s approval for the construction.
Consequently, incidences of fire outbreak from petrol stations spreading to houses and destroying vehicles and other valuable properties are common experience in this part of the world. Worried by the recurrent infernos at filling stations, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) also expressed concerns over the increasing cases of fire outbreaks in filling stations across the country. The agency attributed the problem to neglect of safety rules and regulations by filling station owners. The Operations Controller, DPR Kaduna Zonal Office, Isah Tafida, blamed dealers of petroleum products, filling station owners and other stakeholders for the ugly recurrent filing station fire. According to him: “Based on our findings, we observe that most of the fire incidences in filling stations were caused by poor attitude and neglect to safety rules and regulations by the station owners. Majority of the filling stations, especially those run by independent marketers are without fire extinguishers and functional water sources. Another area of concern by DPR is the issue of hawkers at filling stations-they have turned filling stations to markets, despite the dangers associated with such activities. Also, troubled by the proliferation of filling stations and safety concern of residents, the Lagos State government had in 2017 also placed an embargo on building permit of further construction of the petrol stations. After two years of embargo, the Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode lifted the ban on filling stations construction and unveiled some guidelines for construction of filling stations and gas plants.
Speaking on the lift of ban, the state’s Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Prince Rotimi Ogunleye, said that the immediate lifting of embargo on the grant of Planning Permit for construction of Petrol Filling Stations (PFS) was carried with a reviewed guideline detailing the requirements to be met by operators seeking planning permits for (PFS) and gas plants in the state. With the new guidelines for construction and sitting of gas plants, operators or investors are expected to build only on 450-1000 square metres in the developing area and 301-450 square metres in the built-up area. The gas stations are also expected to have 250 metres distance from each other in the developing area and 200 metres in the built-up area. The Commissioner also said that forthwith, petrol and gas filling stations in Lagos are expected to be located on the 1500-2500 square metres in developing area while such should also be sited on 1000-1500 square metres in the built up area. He explained further that set back must also be observed in the gas plant layouts, adding that plant must have 50 metres set back from the high tension cables. He also said that in every gas plant, a 15 metres distance must be observed between the dispensing bay and the edge of the road.  According to Ogunleye, “by this approval, the State Government seeks to ensure safe and orderly sitting, operation and management of (PFS) and gas plants for the overall safety of Lagosians. The embargo had been done to check proliferation of Petrol Filling Stations and Gas Plants and its consequences on safety of lives and property. The Commissioner added that Lagos State Government was also concerned about improving the aesthetic value and efficiency of operation in the planning, building control and urban regeneration of the state. “With the reviewed guidelines, investors intending to embark on developments of this nature and existing operators are directed to strictly comply with the provisions of the reviewed templates.” New Telegraph gathered that in the new guidelines, stations are categorised according to their locations. Those in category ‘A ‘(Highway with an area of 2500sqm and above) are expected to be 20km apart on same side of the road. Other compulsory facilities to be provided in this category are (i) Changing room, (ii) Air Compressor, (iii) Vulcanizing, (iv) Service Bay, (v) Car Wash, (vi) Convenience Store, (vii) Offices, (viii) Toilets (Minimum of 3 each for Male, Female and 1 each for Disabled Male and Female), (ix) Fast Food/ Restaurant (x) Fire Fighting Equipment, (xi) while urging the CCTV, (xii) 9 pumps. They are also expected to have 18 nozzles maximum. Meanwhile, E-banking, Motel are optional facilities of for such stations. While urging all relevant Stakeholders and general public to ensure successful implementation of the new guidelines as erring developers would be penalised according to relevant laws. The commissioner said Planning Information remain free service rendered by the Ministry to the public providing information on land use zoning, permissible use, plot size, building coverage and height, deviation setback, airspaces and parking requirements. Reacting to the lift on the ban, Mr Kayode Oloriegbe described the development as a welcome development, but wondered if the government would be committed to strict enforcement of the guidelines for the safety of the residents. “It is worrisome that people just set up filling stations everywhere nobody is checking the safety aspect of it. Indeed people may be happy because of the proximity to stations to their houses or work place but what about the danger of having such in their domain? But with the guidelines introduced, I hope it will help check the danger inherent in the filling station construction,” he said. Also speaking on the development, Mrs Sarah Kolawole also expressed fear on the location gas plant and petrol station appealed to the state government to ensure strict compliance so as to prevent the disaster waiting to happen with the location of the filling stations.