The Election Security Support Centre (ESSC) of CLEEN Foundation, in collaboration with the Police Service Commission (PSC) and the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), has deplored the various killings during the Presidential and National Assembly elections. It called on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to do all within its powers to ensure that all eligible voters exercise their constitutional right to vote in subsequent elections, even as it advised security agencies to ensure the safety of all citizens and the ballot boxes. In its preliminary report on Saturday, the Foundation which deployed 1,600 accredited domestic observers across the 774 Local Government Areas to observe the conduct of the security personnel at the polls lamented killings and other security problems during the elections. “There were reported cases of deaths in some states in the country including Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Kogi and Zamfara States. For example, two persons were killed and three injured in Amagu Community in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State in a clash between rival political thugs. “A prominent politician was shot dead at his hometown in Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State. Also, suspected thugs killed a voter at Polling Unit 006 at Ayingba, Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State. There were also unconfirmed reports of killing of voters and others sustaining various injuries in Rivers State,” the statement said. The statement signed by the Executive Director, CLEEN Foundation, Dr. Benson Olugbuo added that assessment from the “field indicates that there were some cases of destruction of electoral materials and attack on security personnel on electoral duty. “For example, at PU 006, Ward 09 at Bayo Oyewole Street by Wilson Avenue, Ago-Palace Way, Okota in Oshodi Isolo Local Government Association of Lagos State suspected thugs set some ballot papers ablaze after attacking security personnel posted to the polling unit. The security officers attached to the polling unit later called for reinforcement. “In addition, in Ward 3, PU 5, Esan South East Local Government thugs snatched ballot boxes after the conclusion of voting. There was also burning of ballot boxes in PU 17, Ward 009 (Okhoro Police Post) in Egor LGA of Edo State. In addition, Ward 10, PU5, Etsako East LGA, there was reported destruction of ballot boxes and no presence of security agents at the polling unit. The group, however, commended the high voter turnout for the polls in many parts of the country, but observed that in some of the polling units that security personnel, electoral officers and election materials were not at the polling units as at 8:00 am. “As a result, the polls commenced very late in many places. Polling units such as PU 018, Opes Space Cinema, Ward A of Kogi State, officials arrived late; at PU 111, Zabi Gari in Kaduna State, voting did not commence as at 11:38am; Similarly, at PU 005, Akwanga LGA, Nasarawa State, INEC officials arrived at 9:46 am.” On the presence of security agents, it said that from the assessment reports received from its stationary and roving observers, “it was observed that security officials were not available in some of the polling units across the country. “For example, at Ward 4, Unit 13 of Orukanam Local Government Area of Akwa-Ibom State, no security official was sighted as at the time scheduled for the commencement of the elections. The same was also noticed for PU 017, Danbatta East Ward, Danbatta Local Government Area in Kano State,security officials were not present at 8:00 am.” On safety and security of observers, it frowned at “some disturbing reports of arrest and molestation of election observers. One of the observers deployed by YIAGA AFRICA was arrested and detained by the Police at the Kafanchan Area Command, Kaduna State. The observer was later released.” It, however, commended the security agencies for conducting themselves in a professional manner during the elections, except for isolated incidents in different areas including security officers carrying arms within the polling area. The group commended majority of the electorate that demonstrated commitment to orderly and peaceful elections, noting that the resilience showed by voters despite glaring challenges is a positive development in our quest to consolidate democracy in Nigeria. CLEEN Foundation also wanted slow operation of smartcard readers in some polling units leading to the slowdown of the election to be rectified, and reported cases of missing names on the voter register solved. It also called for immediate action on reported cases of vote-buying reported in Akwa-Ibom and Kogi states.