The National Leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has said that it would punish the governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun for bringing thugs that stoned the President, Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders during the presidential rally at the MKO Abiola Stadium in Absolute, Ogun State. According to the APC, the act of the Ogun State governor was indiscipline and would not be condoned by the party. In a statement issued by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu in Abuja,  the party said, “The All Progressives Congress (APC) regrets Monday’s premeditated attacks sponsored by Governor Ibikunle Amosun on President Muhammadu Buhari and other senior party leaders at the venue of the presidential campaign rally in Ogun State. “This is one act of indiscipline too many. The APC will not condone acts of indiscipline, indiscretion and anti-party activities from any party member no matter how highly placed. “The party will review this gross misconduct of deliberately positioning thugs to attack and embarrass the President and the party’s leadership. The party will take a decision on this matter immediately after the elections. “It must be stated that party supremacy and discipline according to our constitution are not matters of choice but binding principles which must be adhered to by ALL party members. “The APC is a party known for discipline, justice, fairness and equality hence any plan to destroy what this party stands for would be rejected. No single person will be allowed to put his personal and selfish interests ahead of the wishes of the people of Ogun state and elsewhere. “Post primaries, the decision of the National Working Committee to uphold the wishes of party members is unbendable. Therefore, whatever means being presently deployed by persons intending to undermine the wishes of the people for personal gains will not be tolerated. “We urge our teeming party supporters and members not to be disturbed by Monday’s condemnable incident. We urge all to continue trooping out en masse for our remaining campaigns and vote massively for ALL and ONLY APC candidates in the forthcoming general elections.” It would be recalled that on Monday the alleged supporters of Alliance Progressive Movement (APM) governorship candidate, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade petted the President, Muhamamdu Buhari and other party leaders satchel water for raising the hand of the APC governorship candidate in Ogun State, Chief Dapo Abiodun. Governor Amosun and national leadership of the party have been having a running battle over the emergence of Abiodun as the APC governorship candidate in Ogun State. This has led to the Ogun State APC governor and his supporters supporting the APM governorship candidate, Hon. Akinlade.