Aigbogun: We aren’t under pressure Team to wear black armbands for Ogunjobi  Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, currently in Niamey, Niger to watch the ongoing U-20 Africa Cup of Nations, has warned the Flying Eagles to be wary of their semifinal opponents, Mali. According to Rohr, who at one time coached the Niger national team, said the game against Mali was going to be difficult but of the opinion that the Flying Eagles have what it takes to get the victory and move to the final.
“It is going to be an interesting game because the Malians are difficult to play. They are strong and run a lot,” Rohr said. “But I see Nigeria throwing everything into the fray and doing everything to curtail the Malians by playing a strong game and showing the passion to reach the final.” Nigeria are a step away from playing in the final of the ongoing U-20 AFCON, as they file out against Mali in the first semifinal of the competition on Wednesday (today). The seven-time champions defeated Burundi and host Niger while also drawing goalless against South Africa to emerge top of Group A and they will be up against Mali, who finished second in Group B with six points after victories over Burkina Faso and Ghana, and defeat by Senegal. Speaking also ahead of the game, the manager of the team, Paul Aigbogun, said his boys were no longer under any pressure as they had already secured a World Cup ticket, claiming that they would turn out much better in the remaining games. The former Warri Wolves coach said: “We set the World Cup ticket as our first target for the championship. We have that now, so we are relaxed to go in and give our best for the second target of winning the trophy, while playing without tension or stiffness.” Both teams know a little of each other. At the WAFU U-20 Cup Tournament in Lome, Togo in December 2018, Mali led by a lone goal in one of the semifinal matches until the 82nd minute, before defender Valentine Ozornwafor brought Nigeria level, and the Flying Eagles went ahead to win on penalty shoot –out. The second semifinal, also set for the Stade General Seyni Kountche, will see Group B winners Senegal tackle South Africa. Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football has approved a request by the Nigeria Football Federation for the Flying Eagles to wear black armbands in their semifinal clash with Mali, in honour of departed former NFF Secretary General, Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi.
Ogunjobi, also the Chairman of Osun State Football Association, passed away on Monday morning at the University College Hospital, Ibadan after a brief illness. He was also a former Nigeria international. “We have received the go-ahead from CAF that the Flying Eagles can use the black armbands. It is the least honour that we can accord such an accomplished man who was a football person through and through,” Bola Oyeyode, NFF’s Director of Competitions, told thenff.com. ...as Aremu targets eight title   Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, currently in Niamey, the Niger capital for the ongoing U-20 Africa Cup of Nations, has said he was yet to take a decision on any player that might join the Super Eagles ahead of the AFCON qualifier against Seychelles… In "Sports" Flying Eagles set to soar  past Burundi   The Flying Eagles of Nigeria will begin their quest for another Under 20 AFCON title bid as they confront Burundi in a Group A match at the 2019 African Youth Championships taking place in Niger Hosts Niger and South Africa are the… In "Sports" Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr, has declared that the Russia 2018 World Cup qualifier against Zambia will be a more difficult tie than the encounter with Cameroon. The coach, who was in Ghana for the final of the WAFU Cup of Nations, told New Telegraph that the team had waited… In "Sports"