Officers and men of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Police Anti-bomb Squad and Nigerian Port Health deployed to the Apapa Port Complex, now work in fear over alleged possible imminent collapse of their offices.  Sunday Telegraph investigation revealed that some of the buildings that serve as offices to the government agencies at the Bull Nose section of Apapa Port Complex, have caved in and are begging for structural rehabilitation to avoid looming calamity.  Some Police and Immigration officers spoken to by our correspondent said that they had been using planks to support falling parts of the buildings.
This has created panic among the officers who have we learnt had no choice of where to move to as alternative offices.  Our correspondent during a recent visit to the port, observed that a section of the ceilings of one of the affected buildings have fallen off, even as officers who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that they have employed the services of carpenters to brace the ceilings from falling down.  Specifically, the ceilings of the Explosive Ordinance Disposal (EOD), and the Commissioner of Port Police Monitoring Unit departments, have already been abandoned by officers over fear for their dear lives.  It was further gathered that personal funds have been learnt by officials of these agencies in fixing some of the failed structures but that was not enough to stem the decay.  At the Immigration wooden offices, some sections of the cracked walls show signs of imminent collapse, even as the electricity sockets are exposed without any form of protection.  Our sources disclosed that series of letters had been written to both management of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Port Authority Police Commissioner in charge of Western Ports, Hadiza Bala Usman and Mohammed Kura respectively, without any response.  The officer described the poor state of their officers as an eyesore, saying it cannot attract complimentary remark from the international community, considering the peculiar duties of the Immigration Service.  Our sources said: “The situation has lingered for a long time and that is why the moral of the officers is indeed very low.  “We don’t have anything to say because already letters have been written to the NPA but it appears the Authority does not understand the gravity of what is at stake at the port.”  When contacted, the General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communication, NPA, Engr. A. AJatto said that the Authority was set to commence work on the said infrastructure. He stated that NPA is a responsible organisation that will never endanger the life of anyone.