The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has declared a candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Prince Dayo Adeyeye as winner of the Saturday’s election conducted in Ekiti South senatorial district of the state. INEC Returning Officer, Prof. Laide Lawal announced the result early hours of yesterday in Ikere. While Adeyeye scored 77,621 votes, the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the sitting Senator Biodun Olujimi polled 53,741 votes. However, the APC candidate won five of the six local councils which made up the senatorial district. Also, the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) Returning Officer, Prof. Sunday Abayomi Fasina declared Adetunmbi of the APC the winner of the Ekiti North Senatorial District polls. Adetunmbi polled 60,689 votes to defeat incumbent Senator Duro Faseyi of the PDP who had 49,209 votes. Candidates of the All Progressives in Ekiti South constituency 1 and Ekiti North constituency II, Hon. Yemi Adaramodu and Olarewaju Ibrahim were declared winners. While Adaramodu of the APC emerged winner with 41,864 votes, the Peoples’ Democratic Party’s (PDP) candidate, Mr. Segun Adekola polled 24, 707. In Ekiti North constituency II while the All Progressives Congress, Olarewaju Ibrahim polled 29,388 votes, his rival and PDP flag bearer, Arch. Olusola Omotosho polled 23,684 votes. Also, senatorial candidate in Ekiti Central for the Saturday National Assembly election, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele has won the senatorial seat in the state. Bamidele, a former House of Representatives member between 2011 and 2015, scored a total of 94,279 to defeat the PDP candidate, Mr. Obafemi Adewale, who polled 48,707 votes. Meanwhile, Governor Kayode Fayemi yesterday said he remained grateful to God for the peaceful conduct of Saturday’s Presidential and the National Assembly elections in the state, saluting Ekiti people for their peaceful conduct during the elections. He said: “We have every reason to thank God for the peaceful conduct of the election in Ekiti State. Two weeks ago, the congregation here raised prayer points concerning the peaceful conduct of the election in our state. And God indeed answered our prayers. “The elections held in a peaceful atmosphere in Ekiti. We pray for the repose of the lives lost during the election in some parts of the country and pray that peace will reign supreme in the country. “While I rejoice with the winners, I will also urge them to be humble realising that they could not have won by their power or might but by God’s grace. “Validation by God and the people is an admonition to continue to do good and exhibit generosity of spirit.”