In recognition of the constitutional mandate of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), which include border security at all entry points, issuance of passports among others, a German organisation has donated items to assist the para-military institution. EMMANUEL ONANI reports  A  German organisation, the Dutsche Gesellschaft Fur Internationale Zusammenarbait (GIZ) last week, presented operational and technical items to the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), as part of efforts to sustain collaboration between Germany and Nigeria on immigration matters.  The gesture, which came as part of the GIZ Programme Africa, was commissioned by the German Federal foreign Office,  with the aim of enhancing Immigration capacity in the areas of border security, human rights, processes and procedures.  Its main areas of focus, have been the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), as well as North West states of Kano, Kebbi, and Sokoto. Project Manager of GIZ, Mr. Hartmut Zander, who presented the items to the Comptroller-General (CG) of Immigration, Mr. Muhammad Babandede, said his organisation had been in partnership with the NIS since 2016, adding that the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), which was billed to lapse in 2018, was extended by six months.  A total of 1257 items, including 16 high-power motorbikes, 10 radio devices, 3 binoculars, 6 laptops, 700 A3 size curriculum brochures, and 30 training curricula were donated to the NIS. Others items were: 450 stable chairs, 12 search lights, five Handheld GPs, three HP Printers, eight First Aid boxes, eight measuring tapes and six air conditioners.  “We have been working with the Nigeria Immigration Service  for three years in different areas like training, curricula development, equipment, process management, organisational management, and stuffs like that. It’s a full range of institutional cooperation”, Zander stated. The CGI, Babandede, while receiving the donation, assured GIZ of judicious application of the items. He pledged to ensure seamless operations of the Immigration Service, through continuous improvement of service delivery.  Public Relations Officer (PRO), Nigeria Immigration Service, Mr. Sunday James, a Deputy Comptroller of Immigration, said the gesture was in furtherance of an existing partnership between the two organisations.  “The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has received technical and operational supports from one of its development partners, the Dautsche Gesellschaft Fur Internationale Zusammenarbait (GIZ), a German organization. “The donation is in furtherance of the partnership between the GIZ and the Service as captured in their programme: “GIZ Police Programme for Africa”, a programme supported by the  German Federal Foreign Office and is aimed at enhancing the capacity of NIS personnel to effectively police the borders. “While receiving the items, the CGI assured the organization that the Service will effectively put to use all supports provided by the organization. “The CGI also assured that the NIS will continue to improve its operations with a view to making migration easy and safer for all”, James said.  Meanwhile, Babandede has “restated the commitment of his administration to ensuring that officers and men of the Service are provided with safe, secure and decent office accommodation across the country”. According to the CGI, the provision of a decent work environment, was the least demand employees can make of their employers. He has, therefore, pledged to ensure that a minimum of two office/residential buildings were commissioned each year. The Immigration chief gave the undertaking during the commissioning of the Plateau State Command Headquarters. A German organisation, the Dautsche Gesellschaft Fur Internationale Zusammenarbait (GIZ), has presented a total of 1257 operational and technical items to the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). The organisation, also known as, the GIZ Programme Africa, was commissioned by the German Federal Foreign Office, with the aim of enhancing immigration capacity… In "News" There is subdued anger in the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) over Federal Government's decision to deny it ownership and possession of three aircraft. According to findings by New Telegraph, the German-built Dornier 228 aircraft were designed specifically for aerial border patrol and other surveillance operations. Highly placed sources, who spoke… In "News" Promotion is one of the incentives deployed by organisations, to encourage competition, and also boost productivity. It was, perhaps, against the foregoing, that the Civil Defence, Fire Service, Immigration and Prison Service Board (CDFIPB), at its 59th meeting held on the January 16, approved the elevation of 8,821 officers and… In "Inside Abuja"