Some years back, a plane crash had occurred in which a known political thug had died. Typical of most plane crashes, there were quite a number of noble men, women, top politicians, top business persons and individuals in the illfated aircraft. A friend of mine who knew the political thugs and some of the strife he had spearheaded attributed his violent end through a plane crash to the atrocious cruelties he committed through his murderous political thuggery and activities. I disagreed with my friend that though I was also aware that the man was an infernal nuisance, his nefarious activities and repugnant lifestyle might not necessarily be responsible for his tragic end. I asked my friend to convince me beyond reasonable doubt that there were no good men and women in the ill-fated plane. If there were, why must they die along with the political thug instead of him carrying his cross alone? If the thug had been fated to die in such a manner, why did he not die on a day there were only ‘bad’ people like him on an aircraft? After the initial disagreement about life and death, we agreed that death is unfathomable just as it is inevitable and one of the great certainties in life. We also agreed that where, when and how to die is beyond human control and comprehension, otherwise most of us would choose to die peacefully in our sleep. The mystery of life and death also woke us up to the enigmatic reality that we would die in ways out of our control and nearly all of us would be unaware of that moment when death would knock on our doors and creep in like a thief in the night. With the presidential election just exactly one week away, the social media is agog with political activities and comments. But sadly, loathsome comments are still dominant, an indication that some of us still have a memory like a sieve. I recall some of those stream of expletives and hate speeches that characterised the pre and post 2015 elections and they come handy. One of such was the revulsion that trailed the advert placed in some newspapers by the gadfly former Ekiti State governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, insinuating that the then candidate Muhammadu Buhari might die in office if elected as the president. Perhaps, one of the worst culprits of campaigns that sharply divided Nigeria was the then Vice President Namadi Sambo, who urged northerners to reject the All Progressives Congress (APC) on account of being peopled mostly by Christians. How about a man who hung a placard with the inscription: “my name is Jonathan on a goat, a veiled reference to the then president Goodluck Jonathan, at the APC rally? This was aside those who carried a mock coffin with the photograph of the former president on it at another rally of the then opposition party. With the way things went and the voting patterns that gave President Buhari victory, I had predicted that he is going to preside over a nation that is sharply divided along ethnic and religious lines.The tempo of the music changed four years ago but some of us refused to change our dance step. However, the rhythm can be changed if we feel strongly about it without necessarily rocking the boat with our caustic comments as we go to the poll next Saturday. I must admit that there are instances where the president faltered and the air of lethargy about him is too obvious not to be seen except for those who have made up their minds that Buhari is the best thing since sliced bread or is as right as rain. This is also not to say that Buhari has gone down in flames. Seeing eye to eye on Buhari and his administration shouldn’t be a compulsive disposition but being decorous and constructive in our criticisms are evidences of moral rectitude, which we should aspire to attain. With such noble disposition, it is needless taking our criticisms to a callous level where we wish someone evil or death because of political differences. Surprisingly, each time promoters of hate speeches are reminded of the inherent danger in their action, they are always eager to etch it in our memories how similar treatment was meted out to Jonathan in the build up to 2015 elections. So, for them, it’s payback time. It’s a case of ‘we’ versus ‘them.’ It’s that hatred that undergirded the sinister wish of some people who were disappointed that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo survived the helicopter crash last Saturday. There are so many badly brought up children on the social media. Some adults are even worse, a bad example of adulthood and poor parenting. Initiators of freedom of expression didn’t have idiotic comments in mind before they postulated such great idea meant to reinforce all other human rights and at the same time allow society to develop, progress and bring about the desired change. Hiding under freedom of speech to utter such arrant nonsense about the vice president is akin to hiding behind a finger. The callous comments after the helicopter crash is the height of psychopathic callousness and to wish the vice president death shows the level of degeneration and how sharply divided we are as a nation. These impish comments had vindicated the position I took about two years ago, that left for some people, they will go on their knees, pray and even fast if those are what are required for President Buhari to fail. Those with such parochial minds easily forget that when shit hits the fan, nobody around will be spared from the consequence mess. We have allowed politics to raise dust, separate families and friends. Fiends have been made out of friends in the name of politics. Memories have become so short for us to remember that the dust we raise won’t dissuade politicians from having their nocturnal meetings and changing political parties like diapers depending on where their interest lies. While those detestable comments from the social media can be regarded as an abuse of the social media, there is need to constantly remind the commentators that there are better ways of saying things beyond those abhorrent utterances. But when similar utterances come from those in position of authority, it leaves us with the question: where do we go from here? The Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasiru el-Rufai, had in a live programme on the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) on Tuesday said the country would not accept any foreign intervention during the forthcoming general elections. “Those that are calling for anyone to come and intervene in Nigeria, we are waiting for the person to come and intervene. They would go back in BODY BAGS (emphasis is mine) because nobody would come to Nigeria and tell us how to run our country,” the governor reportedly said. I have appreciated it long ago the importance of carefully controlling what one says. A man who says less commands respect, appears profound and mysterious. The mystery confers huge advantage as people are always eager to listen to a man who rarely opens his mouth unlike a loquacious being. Body bag is not synonymous with travel bag. It symbolises death. While I am on the same page with the governor that undue interference in our internal affairs is a vestige of colonialism and should not be tolerated if we are worthy of our independence and sovereignty, I won’t touch that aspect of body bag with a long pole. It’s unnecessary, highly inciting and belligerent. And if there is nothing in our constitution, which says the sin for interfering in our domestic affairs is death, governor El-rufai is only suggesting that we resort to self-help. I often wonder of what benefit is it for a man who knowingly throws himself into frying pan of controversy from time to time with his comments and actions. There is a problem if an earlier statement made needs to be clarified with further statements. It only gives the maker of the statements out as an imprudent speaker who sees nothing wrong in throwing caution to the wind and avoid weighing his thoughts before they become words. What the Kaduna State governor said could be said in a better way except we choose to call a spade a garden tool.