Some Persons Living with Disabilities(PWDs) recently gathered to celebrate and thank God for the Disability Act assented to by the President Muhammadu Buhari. REGINA OTOKPA reports  It was a special Sunday for Persons Living with Disabilities (PWDs), their friends, families and well wishers, as all roads led to Faith Prophetic Assembly Church, Piwoyi, Airport Road, Abuja, for a special thanksgiving service.
Representatives of Ministers from various ministries were in attendance, as well as some Generals, great comedians, renowned artists living with disabilities.
According to the Special Senior Assistant to the President on Disability Matters, Dr. Samuel Ankeli, Faith Prophetic Assembly has stood out from other churches by identifying, empowering and making life more meaningful for PWDs in the country.
Ankeli, who is visually impaired, lamented that it was a painful experience to be disabled, stressed that beyond the signing of the Disability Act, there was need for PWDs to have a commission or a ministry headed by a competent person with a any form of disability, to ensure proper handling of its affairs more effectively.
Condemning the level of discrimination against the vulnerable, he noted that although no one desires to be disabled, God in his infinite mercy and impartial nature has blessed all PWDs with a rare gift.
“It is our desire for no one to be disabled. It is a painful experience. Never cheat a person with disability. It is a direct curse on your family.
“Christ came for all. Jesus does not discriminate against anyone. All these compartmentalization of ideologies and class distinction is human; it’s not of God. God has not told us that PWDs are not human beings. He is not foolish. He is all wise God.
“I am calling on everyone that they have a responsibility to take care of others. Love is the hallmark of godliness. If we begin to extend our hands of fellowship practically, if we meet the needs of PWDs, you are doing something. Some have the ability to build schools, set up rehabilitation centres, empower PWDs but I don’t know what they are waiting for but know that you are not going to live forever and your resources were given to you by God not by your efforts. So, I challenge Nigerians who have the resources to arise and do something,” he said.
Commenting on the recently signed Disability Act, he stressed on the need for collective effort to ensure implementation saying: “Yes, the Disability Act is in place but a lot more needs to be done and all of us must work together as a team. We must learn to forgive one another and reason alike. Until we are on the same page, we cannot excel the way we want to excel. We are all important before God and we are all important to each other. If we work together as a team, we can take Nigeria to greater heights.”
The chairperson, Centre for Advocacy for Persons Living with Disabilities (CAPWD) Mrs. Omotunde Ellen-Thompson, said the signed Act was a motivation PWDs needed to make life worth living. While calling on all PWDs to ensure strict compliance with the rules and regulations governing the Act, she appealed to everyone not disabled to in their own little capacity make every life disability friendly and everything possible for inclusion.
“We want the Act with commission to be effected all over the federation. This commission should come out with a budget that will include and be able to mainstream PWDs independently in the society, so that these special talents they have can be harnessed to the development of the nation.
“When you look at us, despite that we lack something, it is just a little portion. Inability to perform certain tasks does not mean that you have disability. I use elbow crutches to support myself but it doesn’t it mean that I am not human and I cannot do a lot of things that persons without disabilities will do,” she said.
Lois Aura could not contain her joy, wheeling herself round the church with smiles on her face. She told Inside Abuja her happiest day on earth was the day the President gave assent to the Disability bill. “I am excited and the happiest because this is something we have been advocating for over 15 years. It is going to be an amazing experience from now onwards with the implementation of the Act.”
Inside Abuja checks revealed that for the past two years, Faith Prophetic Assembly has dedicated every last Sunday of every month solely to PWDs, who run all church activities from the beginning to the end of service, thereby giving an opportunity to PWDs to explore their special talents in various ministrations. Also, it is usually a special day to attend to the needs of PWDs, helping them to attain equal life changing opportunities.
According to the General Overseer of the Church, Bishop Emmanuel Jatau, since he got the vision to serve God and care for the less privileged about 20 years ago, he has never paused even in the face of daunting challenges. He added that for the past two years, the church had consistently prayed for President Muhammadu Buhari to recognise the unique nature of PWDs and sign the Disability bill into an Act.
“Now, every organisation is going to recognise people living with disabilities. A lot of rights that have been denied them, we thank God that those rights have been rolled out to them. They have recognised what God has done for them and have come to say thank you. It doesn’t matter how long it takes; surely when God says a thing no matter how long it takes, it shall surely come to pass,” he said.