A late night shootout by suspected bandits which lasted for about three hours on Sunday has left a middle-aged man dead in Benin, Edo State. The victim, Mr. Osato Okunkpolo, in his 40s, met his sudden death while he was in his office. He was a manager of the hotel belonging to Nigeria’s former international footballer, Osaze Odemwingie, within the densely populated area. Besides, Okunkpolo was also the husband of a journalist, Mrs. Anita Okunkpolo, who works with a local tabloid based in the state. The incident occurred at the hotel located at Erediauwa Street off Upper Sokponba Road close to Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area. Sources close to the hotel said the robbers gained access to the facility about 9p.m. and shot Okunkpola dead. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, when contacted yesterday confirmed the incident. The PPRO, however, said Okunkpolo was hit by a bullet during a shootout between two rival cult groups. Nwabuzor said members of Eiye and Aye confraternities had engaged in a shootout in the area on Sunday night. He said: “The incident is true. It is true that a murder incident occurred at Odemwingie’s hotel on the 17th of February, 2019. The incident was between rival secret cult groups; the Aye and Eiye. “In the process the manager was killed inside the hotel. It was not an armed robbery incident. The corpse has been deposited at the Benin Central Hospital mortuary. “Our detectives are still investigating the incident.” Police in Ogun State have shot dead two suspected members of an armed robbery gang in Ijebu-Ode area of the state. The police also recovered arms and ammunition as well as an operational  vehicle from the suspects.   The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed… In "Metro and Crime" Gunmen suspected to be kidnapper have shot Alhaji Nasiru Maimasara to death before abducting his daughter at Gachi quarters in Kankia Local Government Area of Katsina State. The incident, it was learnt, occurred about 2a.m. yesterday, when the gunmen invaded the community and started shooting sporadically, while moving towards the… In "Metro and Crime" A 65-year-old man, Mr. Obi Nwoda, has reportedly collapsed and died while making love to his 34-year-old lover, Ifeoma Ayinka, in a hotel room. The incident occurred on Saturday at Desires and Leisure Hotel, Agu Awka in Aniocha Local Government Area of Anambra State. The state Police Public Relations Officer… In "Metro and Crime"