Once again, Nigeria is on the search for a leader to pilot her affairs in the next four years. Already, 73 political parties got listed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the presidential race. However, the chances and strength of the parties and their candidates are not the same. In this report, WALE ELEGBEDE looks at the candidates who are apparent lightweights in Saturday’s presidential election  The decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to throw open its registration door gave birth to many new parties to take a plunge in the political process. Expectedly, the process produced the good, the bad and the ugly for the fringe parties. But after a tortuous period of party primaries, which was largely characterised by political twists and turns, INEC made public, the final lists of presidential candidates and their parties for the February 16 election. Although some candidates like Dr. Oby Ezekwesili of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) dropped midway from the race, some parties and their candidates also threw their weights behind some other candidates in form of coalitions and alliances. But, INEC insists on the list of 73 stands regardless of the turn of events. As obtainable in some other democracies, the political system in Nigeria has two big political parties in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). Expectedly, the two leading parties are tipped to lead the charge in the race and the 2019 election is tipped to produce one of them, all things being constant. Their candidates are the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari of APC and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of PDP. For many Nigerians, the fringe parties and their candidates, despite bringing fresh ideas to the table, may not have the chance to take over the nation’s plum job, at least in the 2019 presidential election. In this regards, analysts have classified the big two as heavyweights and others as lightweights.
For the lightweights, the desire to win is there, but the structure, strategy, spread, financial war-chest and the wide appeal to voters is clearly missing. For some of them, they couldn’t campaign in any of the four geo-politico zone talk more of doing state by state campaigns.    Chris Okotie (Fresh Democratic Party) Rev. Okotie is the founder and General Overseer of the Household of God Church, a Pentecostal congregation in Lagos. Once regarded as a rave making musician before he gave his life to Jesus Christ and ventured into the ministry, the flamboyant clergyman graduated with a degree in Law from the University of Nigeria at Nsukka. Okotie attended the Grace Fellowship Bible School in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and, soon after, established the Household of God Ministry. In 1990, Okotie established the annual Karis Awards, hosted by his church, to recognize and financially reward Nigerians.
He first made his declaration to contest for president in the 2003 general election under the National Democratic Party (NDP). An erstwhile chairman of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, Maj.General Ike Nwachukwu (rtd), who had spent barely one week in the party, however, defeated the clergyman to clinch the ticket. Okotie then dumped the NDP for the Justice Party, becoming the nominee of his new party on February 8, 2003. He contested the election alongside Nwachukwu, but both lost to Chief Olusegun Obasanjo of the PDP. Undeterred, Okotie registered the Fresh Democratic Party (FDP) and made more unsuccessful attempts in 2007 and 2011, claiming that his ambition was based on a divine call. Okotie’s presidential hopes were dashed on December 7, 2012, when INEC deregistered 28 political parties, including the FDP and conducted the March 28 poll without recognising any of the deregistered parties or their respective candidates because the party failed to secure any elective seat in previous elections. Declaring his intention to again run for the presidency in 2019 after three failed attempts in 2003, 2007 and 2011, the clergyman told his congregation that he had re-emerged from his political hibernation, based on his conviction that Nigeria needed a credible, dependable and a trustworthy man to lead. “I have re-emerged from my political hibernation to contest the office of president in the forthcoming elections. I am fully persuaded that Nigeria needs a man who is credible, dependable and trustworthy,” he said.   Yusuf Obaje – Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party Rev. Prof. Yusufu Ameh Obaje was the Chaplain to the president between May 1999 and June 2005. Whilst he had made unsuccessful attempts at becoming the governor of Kogi State, his foray to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to pick the party’s presidential ticket also failed. But, he eventually became the candidate of the Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party for the 2019 presidential contest. A thoroughbred minister of the Baptist Church, Obaje was Chancellor, Bowen University, Iwo, between 2003 and 2005; president, Nigerian Baptist Convention (2003-2005); president, Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, Ogbomoso (1993-2003); president, Nigeria Theological Education Council and chairman, Nigerian Baptist Convention Theological Education Council (1993-2003), among others.   Omoyele Sowore – African Action Congress Sowore is the founder and publisher of an online citizen news platform, Saharareporters. His decision to vie for the presidency took the political scene by storm.
The Ondo State born activist founded the African Action Congress (AAC) alongside his #TakeItBack Movement allies and the party was officially declared registered by INEC in August, 2018. The former student union leader was unanimously elected as presidential candidate by members of the party at their national convention. Speaking after the convention, Sowore told his party men that “we must work to realise the dream of a new Nigeria, where we would be able to send our children to school and where the black man will be proud of the Nigerian nation. We must say enough is enough. Those who are taking Nigeria into the future are here with us.” Sowore’s passion and desire in media was propelled during the military rule. He studied Geography and Regional Planning at the University of Lagos from 1989 to 1995 with his academic programme extended by two extra years after being expelled twice for political reasons and student activism.
He was the president of the University of Lagos Students Union Government between 1992 and 1994 where he was keenly involved in anti-cultism and anti-corruption advocacy. Although he has made series of appearances across the country for his campaigns, it is doubtful whether his personality and influence will resonate among the electorate, especially the youth who he has packaged his campaigns for.  Adesina Fagbenro-Byron – KOWA  Fagbenro-Bryon, a former regional coordinator of the Department for International Development (DFID), is the candidate of KOWA party. Regardless of the financial constraint, he has managed to move across some parts of the country to garner support for his ambition. But the extent to which he can go is where the question hangs. He said of his ambition: “Given the chance, I promise you that no Nigerian will be left behind and premium will be placed on the value of Nigerian life. There is enough space for a million birds in the skies, and I firmly believe that this country is big enough and endowed enough to more than adequately take care of our needs and establish for posterity a free, just and prosperous society. I am an investor in people and believe with inspiring leadership our nation can be truly great. My personal leadership style is of dignified inclusion.”   Alistair Soyode – YES Party Alistair Soyode is the Founder of London based BEN TV. He joined the political fray not too long ago, stating that his ideals are encapsulated in the acronym YEEEEEEES; hence the slogan “Yes, we can.” He listed the ideals as youth empowerment, economy, education employment, energy, enterprises (agriculture, health), elders, experts (experience, quality, and enforcement of policies), and security. “We have the youth and the experience of our elders and both are needed to make Nigeria greater nation,” he said.
Aside his occasional Television appearances used to espoused his programmes and policies if he becomes the president, Soyode has had little or no influence to the campaign stream.   Tope Fasua – Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party For the 47-year-old renowned businessman and economists, the decision to cross to the threshold of politics, institute a political party and eventually run for the presidency in 2019, was to stop complaining about how things are, or how badly Nigeria is run, and to be responsible enough to do something about the country. Fasua is currently the national chairman of Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), one of Nigeria’s newly registered parties. The party was registered in December 2017. Fasua obtained his first degree in Economics from the old Ondo State University and a master’s degree in Financial Markets and Derivatives from the UK. He has vast experiences in the banking sector. He is the Chief Executive Officer of Global Analytics Consulting Ltd. He once said: “I have many strong ideas about how things should be run. As an economist, that is all I think about. I have written four books on the Nigerian socio-economy, and perhaps over 2000 articles.”
The urbane Fasua was unanimously affirmed the party’s flag bearer on Saturday, September 29, 2018, after a national convention held in various states of the federation and in Abuja. Fasua is one of the most visible presidential candidates in the race and it is obvious that his influence in politics in the days to come cannot be pushed aside given what he has made out of the relatively unknown ANRP.    Yabagi Yusuf Sani – Action Democratic Party  Before it was granted registration in 2017 by INEC, the Action Democratic Party (ADP) was touted as the mega party smarting to dislodge the ruling party. But that is not to be as the various permutations arising from its conception have fizzled out.
But the party is trudging on ahead of the 2019 elections after series of lows and highs performances in some staggered elections especially in the South-West. The party eventually had its national chairman, Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani, elected as its presidential candidate.
Sani emerged the ADP candidate after an election by party delegates during its convention witnessed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Out of 5,336,433 voters accredited for the ADP convention held across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, Sani scored 5,242,346 votes.  He started his early education in 1961 at East Primary School Bida in Niger State. After his Primary Education, he attended Secondary Technical School, Kontagora from 1970-1974. Sani went on to attend the Institute of Technology, New York in the united States of America from 1975-1976 , and later transferred to School of Engineering Colombia University also in New York from 1976-1978 where he was awarded Bachelor of Science Degree in Industrial Management Engineering in 1978 , by the Colombia University , New York, United States. On his return to Nigeria in 1979, he did his national youth service at Universal Textiles Kano in 1980. Sani, was a founding member and former member of the Board of Trustees of All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP.) He was the 1999 Gubernatorial Candidate of All Peoples Party (APP) in Niger State. He was the former National financial Secretary of the Liberal Convention, which later merged with other associations to become the now defunct National Republican Convention (NRC) in 1991.
Of course, the ADP has carved a niche for itself since its registration and Sani has continued to be the face of the party. If the party is able to sustain the momentum, it will surely be a platform to reckon with in dispensations to come.   Fela Durotoye Alliance for New Nigeria The name Adetokunbo Olufela Durotoye is a household name, especially in motivational and leadership training circles. He is not just a smooth talker but a manager of resources and people as exemplified in the way he is successfully running his organization, GEMSTONE Group, a leadership development Institution. Consider as a success story in his line of endeavour, the political terrain is, however, miles apart from private practice. For him, he intends to swim through the tide with his acceptance among the youths which he believes are able to stoke a surprise in the race with their massive number.
His appearance on the nationwide televised debate along other four presidential candidates, soar his candidature in a way and that gave him some positive headlines.  Speaking on his ambition, Durotoye, an alumnus of the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University in the United States, said: “It is now time for us to lead, but remember it is not just about the people being led, it is about us the people, choosing how to make life better, that we have to make our mission. Because we have woken up, now we have chosen to accept our responsibility for the wellbeing of our nation.”
Born on May 12, 1971 in Ibadan, Oyo State, Durotoye has a Bachelor of Science Degree in Computer Science with Economics, Masters degree in Business Administration (M.B.A) and a Master of Philosophy Degree (M.Phil) in Strategic Management, from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State.   Ahmed Buhari – Sustainable National Party He is not a relation of the incumbent president, but is desirous of having another Buhari in Aso Rock. Popularly referred to Ahmed Bee, this first son of a military man is, perhaps, one of the few young aspirants that have moved his ambition to rule Africa’s most populous country from the social media sphere to the streets.
For the young folks, the initiative of Buhari’s Foundation, ‘Kids Can Code’, has endeared them to him and what he represents as they are fully exposed to computer programming, software development, graphic designing and hardware assembling at no cost.
According to him, his vision is to see a unified country where the people are secure, power is decentralised and economically viable. He stated that he seeks to achieve this through the platform of technology. But he is more of a social media influencer than active on the streets campaigning.
Born and raised from an average family setting in Kontagora, Niger State, 39-year-old Buhari acquired a B.Sc. degree in Geology from the Federal University of Technology Minna, Niger state in 2005.   Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim – Peoples Trust  Coming into the race with a solid political background, coupled with twenty-six years of successful business history especially in the oil sector, Olawepo-Hashim is apparently prepared for ideological national politics hence his decision to throw his hat into the ring for the nation’s topmost job.
Olawepo-Hashim, a graduate of Mass Communication from the University of Lagos and Masters Degree holder in Global Affairs from the University of Buckingham, United Kingdom, is another of the few vocal and visible presidential candidates but he is not in the same wavelength of the two leading candidates in the race.  Born of a Yoruba mother and a Hausa father from Kebbi, Olawepo-Hashim candidate has launched an audacious presidential enterprise first on the ANN platform before finally pitching his tent with the PT. He said he wants to galvanise national oppositional momentum against the APC and the PDP and then provide good governance.