Book Title: True Worship Mastery – Tenets of Evergreen Worship Life
Author: Oluwakemi Ugoakaeze (Mrs.)
Publisher: Evergreen Worship life Foundation, Ikoyi, Lagos
Year of publication: 2019
Pages: 85 pages
Reviewer: Pastor Philip Igbinijesu  “A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things” – Matthew 12:35 Not many books are written on worship because not many people can sufficiently explain it with the kind of depth and details we have here, and this is what makes this particular book truly special· The reason is simple. As with most things people do often, even subconsciously, they know about it, but cannot clearly describe it. It thus takes a keen insight, coupled with a divine revelation to produce such a book The book, excellently printed and packaged, is so exciting that you can actually finish it in a single reading section of a few hours. Except that there are so many powerful points in it that will cause you to pause and deeply consider, or even write down.
As Dr. Samuel Ekundayo, The Purpose Preacher, New Zealand, notes in the Foreword, The book has 11 chapters, including sections on definitions, approaches to worship, attributes of worshippers, limitations, etc. The writing style is simple and straight forward. It has a lot of enumeration that makes the book a very good study material for small groups meetings, home cells and other fellowship meetings, as it can very easily be followed step by step. Theologically, I find nothing disagreeable in the entire book. It is thought provoking as it will stretch your thinking on worship.
In conclusion, this book comes highly recommended for all who desire to be true worshippers: for pastors and teachers; for all who are in the music ministry, as choristers and instrumentalists; and indeed every Christian. The book explains the meaning of worship; how to worship; attributes of a true worshipper; limitations to true worship, and many more. As Dr. Samuel Ekundayo, notes in the Foreword, “you can never live an effective Christian life with a kingdom focus without understanding the nature and essence of worship. Worship contextualizes our knowledge consciousness of the presence of God in us. We must realize we’re on earth but we don’t belong here. And in the kingdom we’re from, worship is an everyday, every time thing. Why then must we try to be ‘normal’ on this earth by confining worship to a mood, a place, a feeling, an atmosphere or type of music? “This is why every believer must read this book. ‘True Worship Mastery’ is not just another book on worship, it’s a book full of truths godly insights into what true worship is.” It is my confidence and joy to recommend to you, without any hesitation whatsoever Mrs. Oluwakemi Ugoakaeze’s book: True Worship Mastery – Tenets of Evergreen Worship Life. Mrs. Ugoakaeze is an ardent lover of God with a mandate to raise true worshippers in obedience to God’s injunction in John 4:23-24. She has an undiluted passion and zeal for singing right from her tender age. She has been involved in worship engagements for years and has at different times been choir coordinator, praise worship leader, music team member, and also organized a mini workshop conference while in the university. She holds a degree in educational management from the University of Ado Ekiti, and a Masters Degree in Educational Planning and Administration from the University of Education Winneba, Ghana. She also attended Word of Faith Bible Institute (WOFBI), Daystar Leadership Academy (DLA) and School of Disciples (SOD) respectively, to acquire more knowledge.
Igbinijesu is a Senior Pastor, Word Assembly