As the 2019 general elections come up on Saturday, Architect Reuben Okoya has pleaded with Bayelsans to vote for all People Democratic Party candidates both at the state and at the  National level. Architect Okoya was speaking yesterday in Yenagoa during a media chat with journalists. He emphasized the need for electorates in Bayelsa State to vote for all candidates of the People’s Democratic Party, in the presidential, senatorial and house of Assembly candidates. Okoya who was a former PDP gubernatorial aspirant in 2015 said “Bayelsa is a PDP state and we have been doing extremely well. From 1999 that PDP came into power,  they have done very well in Bayelsa state. “The success of the party ought to be rewarded by people coming out to vote en mass. ‘Im here today to address this press unbeaten half of the messages that PDP has been sending out and I enjoin Bayelsa ns to vote for PDP. “We can’t say that any other party in this country has done more for Bayelsa state. “We have been campaigning in the past few weeks that PDP candidates should be voted for because they have done well. “The success of the party ought to be rewarded. Voting for PDP is voting for posterity. As a PDP person I’m proud of the works that Dickson has done. He said that the airport was a federal project but added that Governor Henry Seriake Dickson has made sure that there is an airport in Bayelsa. “If not for any other thing, Bayelsans should vote for PDP  because of what Governor Dicksvhas done. He, therefore, asked the losers of the forthcoming election to be fair losers and take it in good faith adding that we should learn in this part of the world to be fair losers. Berating APC, he said that there are states that have been brought to their kneels by APC “They can’t move. We have to be realistic. Travel to the Northern states and see the level of suffering. Lagos is under siege. The economic downturn in Lagos is tremendous. “Take the school feeding program, for instance, is Bayelsa part of it?. Why not After all the money being used is from Bayelsa. Have you asked that question? So we must be fair. He, however, asked youths to shun every form of violence during after the election adding that this election must be void electoral violence. He also advised the security agencies not to be partisan in the forthcoming election. Okoya charged the media to always be transparent in their reportage.