Engr. Bemigho Ofoeyeno, Director-General Okowa 2019 Campaign Flow in this interview with OLA JAMES, speaks on why Governor Ifeanyi Okowa should be returned for second tenure, even as he says President Muhammadu Buhari has inflicted hardship on Nigerians since 2015  You are the convener of Okowa 2019 Campaign Flow, what are the chances of Governor Okowa coming back for a second term? Marvelous, beautiful and I can recall the flag-off of the campaign at Oghara was super successful. I can also say without fear or favour that the people of the state love Governor Okowa so much. You can see the mammoth crowd at Oghara, and other places we have gone to and that gives the signal that Okowa’s second term bid is already a reality.  What the opposition in the state are saying is that PDP is used to rented crowd. How true is it? Far from it. We don’t rent crows, besides, I can tell you that Okowa is a man of the people and he is loved by all. All Deltans from the 25 local government areas love Governor Okowa, hence they want him back in office.   You are very optimistic of Okowa’s coming back to office. How are you going to achieve this feat? We have co-ordinators in all the wards and units in the 25 local government areas. So our strategies are perfect and I believe that we will succeed in the end. Above all, we have since embarked on door-to-door campaign for the governor’s second coming; we are everywhere, even to the market places, motor-parks, various social joints in all the council areas as well as the riverine communities.  The present governorship position is occupied by some one from Delta north, where do you think power should go to now? No doubt the governorship is in Delta North Senatorial District and it should be so because it is still their turn. All hands must be on deck to ensure that this dream becomes a reality.   What motivated you to embark on this campaign? I am pleased and overwhelmed by the chain of achievements of Governor Okowa. And as former chairman Nigerian Institute of Engineers, I was opportuned to meet the governor one-on-one and discussed the issue of flooding in the state with him and as a listening governor he promised to rescue the situation which is becoming a reality. In fact, we are very happy with the governor for his effort in developing the state so far. Above all we have mobilised supports for all PDP candidates who are contesting from the State Houses of Assembly to the National Assembly.  How would you rate former governor James Ibori in this crusade? Everybody knows that Chief Ibori, the former governor is the political godfather of the state and he is fully in support of Governor Okowas’ return to office. Apart from that Chief Ibori’s pedigree is so voluminous that nobody can contest the fatherly role of the Oghara-born political sage.   How would you withstand the pressure from APC in Delta South and central respectively in this election? Simple. The massive support we are getting from all the parts of the state is a testimony that APC is no threat to PDP in any part of the state. Above all, even the blind and the deaf know that Delta is a PDP state and there are no two ways about it. We are not faking this, it is a reality, what people don’t know is that APC is only a paper tiger and does not have structure in the state. Frankly, PDP is more solid than APC, the people know that fact.  Are you downplaying the popularity of Chief Great Ogboru the APC governorship candidate in this election? APC does not have any structure in Delta State and they (APC) should be told in clear terms that PDP belongs to Delta, just as APC is yet to find its feet in the political system of the state. In fact Ogboru should be day-dreaming if he thinks he can defeat Okowa.   Even with federal might? Voting is by number not by force or threat from anybody. All I can say is that APC is wasting time in Delta State; the party should go out to another state to contest and possibly win.