 The servant of God, Primate Elijah Ayodele of INRI Evangelical Spiritual Church, Oke Afa, Isolo, Lagos, has said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP’s) candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, will win Presidential election if the process was free and fair.  Primate Ayodele made this proclamation during his church’s annual event, ‘Week of Appreciation’, where the man of God takes care of orphans, widows and less privileged in the society with cash donations, food and gift items.  According to the man of God concerning the outcome of yesterday’s election: “If it was free and fair, I give it to Atiku, honestly speaking. But if it was not free and fair, APC will just surely find their way to get it to their side.” The Primate further advised PDP not to relent but to make sure they do not give the All Progressives Congress (APC) the chance to rig the election. “PDP should follow APC bumper to bumper if they want to win, otherwise APC will change the election and what is expected. I see a change in government. The people are tired of the present government and if Buhari forces himself on this election, I don’t see him completing his term. I don’t see him having good health; I don’t see anything coming out of it.  “If APC is defeated, let them leave honourably. There some people who know very well that Buhari don’t have the power to rule. So the present government should concur if they are defeated. If PDP does not go bumper to bumper with them, they will turn it against them technically and Nigeria will suffer. So people should go and vote for the right candidate. I wish Nigeria a successful election.”  Primate Ayodele also said that the election will be marred with violence and inconclusive results in some areas that may led to further violence.
“There will be violence if we are not careful because there will be some places where the election will be inconclusive and it’s going to be delayed and there will be violence. So Nigeria is sitting on a time bomb and we need to pray for God’s protection,” he warned.