Railway transport is without doubt one of the most important and effective means of land transportation the world over. Yet, in Nigeria, the story is different. The country has had to rely on road over the years to transport both human and heavy goods across the country. This has left many roads in worse conditions with huge human and economic losses. But the revival of the rail transport, according to ISIOMA MADIKE and OPEYEMI AYINDE, who recently took a ride on the newly commissioned standard gauge rail line from Lagos to Abeokuta, is changing all that  Have you ever travelled to another city on a train? There is nothing quite like the experience of riding on a train; there’s something magical and timeless about train ride across cities, towns and villages. It’s a completely different feeling than riding in a car, bus or even a plane. The opportunity to see a lot more scenery than one would if travelled any other way, could be the reason why many are fascinated with trains. Depending on the destination, the view can actually be breathtaking, especially if one is riding over valleys, mountains, rivers, caves, and over bridges. The excitement was turbo charged on Tuesday when the newly commissioned standard gauge railway line started its free ride from Lagos to Abeokuta in Ogun State. Joy and smiles were etched on many faces, and some with missing feelings too, as a huge crowd, including adults and the aged; men and women, and the young as well as children came out in their numbers to witness this epoch making trip and goodbye to their loved ones, as the train departed the Iju, Lagos station for Abeokuta. Emmanuella Toma, an eight-yearold Montessori school girl, grew up a couple of miles away from the train tracks. Familiar with the workings, she was, however, excited when she had the opportunity to ride on one that sauntered through the centre of downtown on Tuesday. Her reaction to her first ride on a train, is perhaps, the way many, including adults felt when they saw one of those metal beauties for the first time. “Look at how it goes,” she exclaimed as her eyes lit up with joy. “Oh my goodness,” she screamed aloud when the train meandered in-between its railings. The beauty, inside and outside, is also something not only Toma but the other passengers adored. According to the little girl, “what I am seeing in this train is amazing and unbelievable.” Her mother, Joy, though was as much excited as her little baby, Toma, however, she fought within herself to hold back the over joy feeling. “Sure, I can hardly contain myself when I see a funny-looking dog, but I crave the feeling of pure joy that only kids have when they experience something great for the first time in their short existence. “But, it wouldn’t be very cute if I reacted the same way as a child. No one wants to see a 43-year-old woman drooling all over herself, hardly able to control her appendages as she bursts with excitement,” Joy said. People of all tribes, socio – economic backgrounds and creeds, were at the station almost all day waiting to board and experience what it was like riding on a standard gauge railway line for the first time. The train arrived at the Iju station at 9am but could not depart for its first trip to Abeokuta until 4pm. It was planned that way since the service was on a test-run. People scrambled for any available seat while the handlers had a herculean task trying to assist and maintain some level of orderliness amidst the palpable confused state. Hawkers were not left out in the exciting scenery. They cried at the top of their voices. It was shouts of joy, anyway. There was a great rush, many only trying to admire the new wonder on rails. Soon the train started on its historic journey. The train gained momentum afterwards, passing through the green fields. The farmers were seen tending and sloughing the fields. The chil-dren were making faces at the train. It passed by many small and big towns, rivers and bridges too. The trees looked like running backwards while the earth seemed to be moving round. The unfolding scenery and sight were beauty to behold. One noticed that the train wasn’t moving fast as it should, and this, according to the train coordinator, Akinlade Sunday, is because the rails are not yet solidified. When it does, he said, it’ll be as fast as it is programmed to run. It has the capacity to go at 150kmph. It did not stop at any of sub-stations. There was none, however. It was a one-way journey to Abeokuta. Aside the name, the tracks and coaches are as different as they are beautiful. For now, only two of the coaches are fixed: the first and second class sections. While in the train, one would hardly notice the difference between the classes of the coaches. Except for the food and wine served in the first class coach, every other thing seemed to be the same. The two sections are chilled and spacious. Both are as neat as the airplane if not even neater. The health and safety environmental officers portrayed world class comportment; courteous and neatly dressed. They are mostly young pretty and attractive ladies. You get the feeling that they are models and that looking beautiful is one of the requirements for the job. Along the tracks are bridges and a tunnel that looked more fascinating than the Independence Tunnel at Maryland, Lagos. The bridges are constructed in such a manner that allow vehicles and pedestrians not to interface with the train directly. They are over pass bridges and tunnels where trains pass through on top or under instead of railway level crossing. The Nigerian Railway Corporation had stated earlier that the frequency and speed of the train would not allow both the rail track and the road to intersect, it is either the train on top and the road underneath for free movement, so explained its Lagos District Manager, Jerry Oche. He added: “We have about many of such over pass bridges between Lagos axis and Ogun. For this new standard gauge rail line, there is no level crossing where the track and the road will meet each other. So, a situation where truck hit the train or moving train hit a truck or vehicle will not arise on the standard gauge, unlike the existing narrow gauge, where vehicles are crossing the tracks to the other side of the road.” Ozioma Osayande, one of the first passengers on that day told Saturday Telegraph that he had been skeptical about the project like many other Nigerians. He said: “I need to say that I am not one of those who are unnecessarily cynical or overtly critical. And I am not one of those who are impressed by mediocre performance. I am somewhere in between. “Though I know that Nigerians have sunk into mediocrity for several decades, and that we have almost come to a point where we have now agreed that we can never do anything right. In the context of the rail system as I witnessed on this ride between Lagos and Abeokuta today, it seems to me that our leaders are beginning to believe that the people deserve a better life. “Like many, I did not believe what I am seeing here and that is the major reason why I am in this train. I am now here and I can tell the stories better. It is not about politics, it’s about the good life, just the type or near those enjoyed in other climes. The government, to be very sincere, has wormed my hearts. Though, it could be better.” Another passenger who identified himself simply as Opeyemi, said for the past three years, he had only travelled long distance by train. “Travelling by train has given me incalculable experiences and interactions, but this one is different. “When I limped my way to the train and greeted other passengers, I felt like I’m in a trance. It was my first time on this train, travelling inbetween South-west cities, and I was enjoying the ease in which people were talking about the development. Long, idle trips on Nigeria’s least effective mode of transportation lend well to deep and personal conversations from others. But on this train, we were also sharing the experience as one, and we had no choice but to open ourselves up; we had no option but to also discuss about the new Nigeria. “The operators were smartly dressed, the way people from advanced countries would. I was dressed in jeans and a simple shirt-sleeves top. Their poise brought both familiarity and shame in my lack of grace. I can’t remember how our conversation started, but we talked from 4pm to 5.50pm. When we pulled into the Abeokuta station, I felt the journey never ends. I enjoyed every bit of it. I was lost in the crowd waiting to receive us; unfortunately, I may never see many of the passengers again. But I will never forget their faces.” A number of government officials who were part of the inaugural trip also relieved their experiences. For instance, Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun, said that Nigeria may have succeeded in solving the perennial Lagos traffic gridlock as the newly constructed standard gauge rail track has the capacity to move between 1000 to 5000 containers just by one train in one day. Amosun stated that the new infrastructure would take many people and goods off Lagos roads, as many business activities would be moved to the rail corridor. He added that it takes less than 30 minutes to travel from Lagos to Abeokuta. He listed other benefits that the new rail would bring, even as he insisted that the project would revolutionise Nigeria. “In all developed nations, 80 per cent of their freight is conveyed by rail, and why they do that of course is to take the burden off their roads. It is going to help our economic indices, because it will now be easy for us to move our goods to anywhere, either to Kano, or Onitsha, and Aba. The time it will take will be shortened, the problem that it will take will be lessened. So, clearly now we can move, we can move maybe 1000 containers or even 5000 containers just by one train in one day.” For the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who declared three months free ride for passengers on the train, the gesture is to showcase the government’s improvement on infrastructure delivery promise. The minister reiterated that the Federal Government has placed an order for 30 standard gauge locomotive engines and 300 wagons from China. He was quite optimistic that the laying of tracks from Abeokuta to Ibadan axis will be completed by June. He added that civil work has already been completed while ballasting is ongoing. The Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, also lend his voice to the exciting mood as he joked that the next expedition from the platform in Abeokuta will be a rocket to another planet. The project was executed by South African Railways and the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). A standard-gauge is a railway with a track gauge of 1,435 mm (4 ft 8 1⁄2 in). It is also called Stephenson gauge after George Stephenson, International gauge, UIC gauge, uniform gauge, normal gauge and European gauge in the EU and Russia. It is the most widely used railway track gauge across the world, with approximately 55 per cent of the lines in the world using it. All high-speed rail lines use standard gauge except those in Russia, Finland, Portugal and Uzbekistan. The distance between the inside edges of the rails is defined to be 1435 mm except in the United States, where it is still defined in U.S. customary units as exactly “four feet eight and one half inches” (0.1 mm larger than the metric standard). Railway transport, according to experts, is, without doubt, one of the most important and effective means of land transportation. They believe it to play an important role in the socioeconomic development of all economic powers. This may be the reason why many are optimistic that the standard gauge rail system is coming with huge economic benefits to Nigeria. Beyond the seaports, the rail form of transportation is critical to moving goods and people more cheaply and efficiently across the country; hence, the need for renewed focus on the rail sector to boost the economy. The country has had to rely on road to transport heavy goods across the country, a situation that has left many roads in worse conditions with huge human and economic losses. It has also been identified by experts as a critical resource to help end the gridlocks at the Apapa ports that has cost Nigeria billions of naira in losses over the years. It equally has a ripple effect on employment crisis in the country. It will help to create direct local employment each year, which comprised office managers, engineers, technicians, operators, drivers, and menial among others. The accumulative job opportunities that would be created, many say, will be huge. The invention of the rail transport system redefined the movement of people and goods across the globe. It is convenient, safe and cheap. Railways enable seamless transportation that engender robust economies, anchored on human resources and services accessible with limited regulatory intervention by government or its bodies. It created jobs and enhanced the growth and development of cities. Employments are created through the building of tracks, furniture foundries, coaches and others. Agricultural produce, clothing, animals, petroleum products and equipment can easily be transported across countries and states with the railway system. Historically, the railways in Nigeria were conceived and constructed rom Lagos to the furthermost parts of North-eastern part of the country, to open up the hinterland of southwestern Nigeria along its corridor. In 1896 railway construction began from the Iddo area with extensions made along the Lagos route with stops at Ota, Ifo, Arigbajo, Papalanto, Abeokuta and Ibadan in 1901. But due to limited finance further development of the railway in Southern Nigeria was delayed. Proposals linking Benin, Sapele in 1906 and Ibadan with Oyo in 1907 came to nothing. Records have it that the Lagos railway terminal at Iddo was constructed to connect Lagos Island with Lagos mainland and act as a transit stop for trains using the railroad bridge constructed along two major road networks that connect the Island with other parts of Lagos and the Carter Bridge. However, in 1904, the colonialists decided to construct the rail road linking Ibadan with Osogbo and Ilorin in 1907; it was approved to begin construction from Ilorin to Jebba. The Baro-Kano line was predicated on developing the trade routes along River Niger. The initial intention was to develop a rail line along the Niger River and Port of Forcados in Southern Nigeria, and importantly, both routes leading to Kano.