Prominent Islamic scholar and leader of the Darikatul Tijjaniya Movement in Nigeria, Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi, has urged the people of Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa federal constituency in Bauchi state to vote for the Speaker House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara in Saturday’s National Assembly elections. Speaking in Bauchi when the Speaker paid him a visit at his residence, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi called on the people of Bauchi state to reject politicians who use religion to divide them. He said Hon Dogara’s track records of religious tolerance, peacebuilding and worthy representation speak for themselves and he should be encouraged to do even more. He noted that the Speaker has done remarkably well in bringing dividends of democracy to his constituency, Bauchi state and the northeast region, hence the need for the people to reciprocate it by re-electing him on Saturday. He told his followers that “it will be more preferable to vote for a Christian than a member of the Izala Movement who does not see or regard members of Tijjaniya sect as Muslims.” He, however, said, “Both Darika and Izala are under the umbrella of Islam, our religion, but the person they are imposing on the people is the same man who is well known in insulting our renown scholars, elders, and yet he is calling himself a Muslim. It is like a direct insult to my father, mother, scholars, mentors and spiritual leaders and we’ll never support such person. Sheik Dahiru Bauchi also offered special prayers for the success of the speaker in the election and also prayed for the continued peace and unity of the state and country at large. In his remark, Hon Dogara expressed gratitude for the continued prayers of the cleric for the peace, unity, stability development of Nigeria. Dogara decried that over 1.3 million children are out of school in Bauchi state, stating that the number will keep increasing unless the people elect a government that truly cares about uplifting the standard of education in the state. He warned that if care is not taken, the number of out of school children may reach five million in the next few years which portends great danger to the society. Earlier, an Islamic Scholar, Sheikh Muhammad Balarabe Isah Ginzum informed Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi that speaker Dogara had built Islamiyya schools in all the three local governments in his constituency among other interventions aimed at helping the Muslim community.