Although the Serb won the Australian Open easily, his reliance on his backhand could be an Achilles heel Daniil Medvedev sounded confident ahead his clash in the fourth round of the Australian Open with Novak Djokovic, the world’s topranked men’s player. With what passes for trash talk in the courteous world of professional tennis, the 22-year-old upstart pointed to a few of Djokovic’s recent losses and said, “he is not playing as he was before,” so “you always have chances to beat him.”  Apparently those chances were scarcer than expected: 48 hours later, the Russian was out of the tournament, just another victim along Djokovic’s path to his 15th major title and record seventh Australian Open victory. In the final on January 27, Djokovic sent the tennis world a resounding message with a comprehensive 6-3, 6-2, 6-3 defeat of his long-time rival, Rafael Nadal. Medvedev, who broke into the top 20 of the world rankings shortly after winning a title in Tokyo last fall, came in for his share of ribbing after failing to back up his pre-match comments. Still, he offered the sternest test the Serbian champion would face over the fortnight, keeping Djokovic on court for more than three hours, forcing a fourth set and winning 47 per cent of total points played.  By comparison, Nadal won barely 37 per cent of points in the final. The Russian mimicked the tactics of fellow youngsters such as Alexander Zverev, a 21-year-old currently ranked third in the world, and stayed within striking distance by limiting the damage Djokovic could do with his signature backhand. Against Medvedev, Djokovic hit one-third fewer backhand winners than his usual rate, and a whopping two-thirds fewer winning backhand shots down the line, the highlightreel statement that often leaves opponents flat-footed.  It wasn’t enough to score an upset, but it was much better than Djokovic’s opponents would manage in the final three rounds of the tournament. Since returning from injury last March, the Serbian has entrenched himself back at the top of the sport. After winning his fourth Wimbledon title, he dominated the summer and fall hard-court seasons with a US Open championship and a 28-3 record on his favourite surface.  It was that trio of losses that inspired Medvedev, coming against 20-yearold Stefanos Tsitsipas in Toronto, 22-year-old Karen Khachanov at the Paris Masters, and Zverev at the season- ending Tour Finals in London. In his 41 hard-court matches dating back to last summer, Djokovic has won 32 of 33 against players age 24 or older, whereas he has lost three of eight against those 22 and younger.  Overall skill levels cannot account for this discrepancy: according to pre-match Elo forecasts, which rate each player based on their record and the quality of their competition and weight performances by surface, Djokovic was expected to win 82 per cent of the matches against older players and 78% against the younger group. It would be easy to write off the three losses and dropped sets to Medvedev and 19-year-old Denis Shapovalov, who similarly challenged Djokovic in the third round in Australia.  After all, Zverev is the most accomplished player of the group, and he lost his two other recent meetings with the Serbian, both by lopsided score- lines. But a closer look at the shot-by-shot records of these contests, logged by the volunteerdriven Match Charting Project, shows that the generation of rising stars is consistently neutralising Djokovic’s backhand on hard courts in ways that Nadal does not. A familiar feature of men’s tennis is the battle over forehands.  Attackers such as Roger Federer back further and further into their backhand corner so that they can use their stronger shot, while their opponents attempt to manage rallies so that the forehand is impractical. Djokovic alters the calculus with his powerful two-handed backhand, and particularly with his preternatural balance, which allows him to send the shot in any direction.  There are two general ways to negate that advantage: hit fewer shots to the backhand, or hit those shots more aggressively.  Zverev’s approach is the former. In his Tour Finals upset, he limited Djokovic to topspin backhands on only 41 per cent of his groundstrokes, compared to the Serbian’s career average of 45 per cent.  In their previous meeting at the same tournament, Zverev knocked that number down to 39 per cent, one of the few times Djokovic hit so few backhands on a hard court. (Another sub- 40 per cent performance was Denis Istomin’s shock upset of the Serbian at the 2017 Australian Open.) Medvedev took the alternative tack, following a path blazed by Tsitsipas.  The Greek prospect allowed Djokovic to hit backhands at a typical 46% clip. But by hitting harder, riskier shots to that side of his opponent, he took Djokovic’s down-theline weapon out of the game.  Djokovic typically sends about one-seventh of his backhands up the line, but against Tsitsipas last summer, that number was cut in half, and Djokovic failed to record a single winner in that direction. In the Melbourne final, Nadal allowed the world’s top-ranked player far more freedom: Djokovic hit one in five of his backhands down the line, and a quarter of those shots ended the point in his favour. Only once has Nadal held his rival’s down-the-line rate below 10 per cent: the 2013 US Open final, the last time the Spaniard got the better of one of their hard-court duels.   As the Russian can attest, forcing Djokovic to beat you with his forehand doesn’t always work out. The Serbian has more weapons than most doubles teams possess between them. And Shapovalov’s experience teaches that risky tactics can make things even easier for Djokovic. After charging back to claim the third set in their Melbourne match, Shapovalov dropped the fourth, 6-0. There’s only so much to be gained by choosing the right tactics.  Taking away a bit of a superstar’s edge might prolong a match and give fans more to cheer, but it rarely reverses the outcome against one of the greatest players of all time on his preferred surface. To consistently beat Djokovic, these prospects will need to improve all aspects of their game just to narrow the gap. Still, the latest generation of pretenders to the men’s tennis throne has exposed a weakness in Djokovic’s game, and have proven themselves able to exploit it.  The cohort that preceded them arrived on tour back when Federer ran the show on hard courts, so their tactics aimed toward defending against powerful serves and exposing a weak backhand, not neutralizing a strong one. In that pre-match interview, Medvedev spoke of watching TV as a youngster and witnessing some of Djokovic’s greatest feats from afar. Years later, the same man reigns atop the sport, but the Russian might one day be the player who takes him down.  *Courtesy: discovery.economist. com