 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has filed a fresh petition before the National Judicial Council (NJC) against the suspended Chief of Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Onnoghen.  The Council had, however yesterday, at its emergency meeting passed the petition to Onnoghen and consequently gave him seven days to respond. Similarly, the Council set up a Preliminary Complaints Assessment Committee to look into the separate responses by Onnoghen and the Acting CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad to the petitions served on them on January 29.  The Council had earlier fixed today to consider the responses of the two Justices to separate queries issued on them. President Muhammadu Buhari had, on January 25, suspended Onnoghen, based on an ex-parte order made by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) sitting in Abuja and consequently sworn in Justice Tanko Muhammad as the acting CJN.  The issue had prompted the NJC to call for an emergency meeting on January 29, where it passed down the petitions written against Onnoghen and Muhammad to them and asking them to reply within seven days. When the Council reconvened yesterday, it resolved to the Preliminary Complaints Assessment Committee in accordance with Regulation 17 of the ‘National Judicial Council Judicial Discipline Regulations, 2017’ to look into the various responses.  According to a statement by the spokesperson of the Council, Soji Oye, the Committee was mandated to report back to the Council on February 13. According to Oye, “Council also received a new petition written by the EFCC against Hon. Mr. Justice W.S.N. Onnoghen, GCON and forwarded it to him for his response within seven working days. “Council reaffirmed its confidence in Hon. Mr. Justice Umaru Abdullahi, CON and continues under his Interim Chairmanship.”  The committee is to look at the response of Onnoghen to the petition written by one Zikhrillahi Ibrahim of Resource Centre for Human Rights and Civil Education, while it will also look at Muhammad’s response to separate petitions written by Centre for Justice and Peace Initiative and Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) respectively. Parts of the issues raised in the petition against Onnoghen centres around some alleged illegal cash inflow into his personal accounts and ownership of undeclared properties within and outside the country. For Muhammad, the petition against him major on his acceptance to be sworn in as acting CJN, in breach of the provision of the Constitution.  The fresh petition, New Telegraph gathered, arose from the interrogation of a Senior Advocate of Nigeria  (SAN), Joe Agi, who is being investigated for allegedly paying $30,000 into a domiciliary account of Onnoghen.  The anti-graft agency had, last week, quizzed Agi and consequently seized his international passport to ensure that he does not leave the country until the conclusion of his case. A top source who prefers anonymity, told New Telegraph that in the course on interrogation, Agi has made a useful statement and detectives are currently screening his accounts following fresh clues with regards to his relationship with Onnoghen.  “The SAN has told our detectives that the CJN is his brother, having come from Cross River State together,” the source said. The source also noted that apart from the $30,000 payment, Agi was Onnoghen’s referee when the suspended CJN was in the process of opening one of the domiciliary accounts traced to him. Agi is the first suspect linked with some suspicious lodgements in Onnoghen’s accounts.