Controversial on-air personality, Daddy Freeze is at it again. This time around, he picked on the revered General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye for his comments on, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s survival after his helicopter crash-landed in Kabba, Kogi State recently. Osinbajo, while testifying of how God had speared his life, had said that Adeboye prayed for him the night before the crash, hinting that was the reason God spared lasy Saturday. But Daddy Freeze, in a swift reaction, stirred the hornets nest again by mocking the man of God when he insisted that it was not Pastor Adeboye’s prayer that saved Osinbajo from the crash. Posting severally on his Instagram page, Daddy Freeze attacked Papa Adeboye, making reference to past prayers the high profile Christian leader prayed that did not come to pass. He said if Adeboye’s prayer saved Osinbajo from the crash, then Miles Monroe who died in a copter crash “must have been praying to the devil then, abi?”
“He (Adeboye) also prayed for Erastus as well. Please where is his bank today?” He asked. “Before we give credit to Adeboye’s prayers for Osinbajo’s helicopter crash save, let’s remember that Bimbo Odukoya and Miles Monroe, both pastors, died in plane crashes. Adeboye also prayed for Jonathan, remember?” Daddy Freeze then went on to cite examples of people who survived crashes without being prayed for. “In 1972, Vesna Vulovic fell from 33,000 feet, which is the cruising altitude of a Port Harcourt, bound Lagos flight. She survived without Adeboye’s prayers and went on to live a normal life. “In 1971, Juliane Koepcke, while strapped to her airplane seat fell (10,500 ft) into the Amazon Rain Forest. She survived the fall without Adeboye’s prayers & was then able to walk through the jungle for 10 days till she was rescued,’ he stated. Meanwhile, Daddy Freeze had received bashing and commendation for his comments on Adeboye from people who responded to his Instagram posting. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has revealed how the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, prayed for him a night before the helicopter crash in Kogi State on Saturday. Osinbajo stated this on Sunday while giving testimony at the RCCG, City of Grace Parish,… In "News" Controversial OAP, Daddy Freeze, has taken his weeks-old war against tithing and offerings to another level by calling out the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. In another of what is becoming more frequent by the day, he has attacked another minister of God… In "Show Biz" General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, yesterday declared that the devil wanted to take the life of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, but God put the devil to shame. In a live telecast from the RCCG headquarters, Lagos, Adeboye asked the congregation to rise… In "News"