A clash of faith, modernity and culture  In many parts of Igboland, it is compulsory to kill a goat or a cow during the burial of one’s parents. Although Christianity appears to challenge the custom, many still believe that repercussions follow those who refuse to obey such rites. Even Christians perform such rites with caution, STANLEY IHEDIGBO writes   Before the coming of the European’s Christian Missionary activities to Igboland, there were many of beliefs and practices which were held dear to the heart. Those practices were passed from one generation to other. One of such was the Osu (caste) system, where some people were dedicated to idols or gods and they are perpetually known as slaves (Ohu) in Igboland. Also the killing of twins, albinos, slaves, witchcraft, polygamy, nude dressing and certain practices against women and widows appeared to be evil in the contemporary society and therefore, needed to be preached against, so as to review them in the light of superior arguments from religions such Christianity. Another of such practices that has stood over time is the funeral ceremonies in Igboland, which became a huge challenge facing many families. Some of the funeral rites were usually performed with goats, cows or in some instances, human beings, in the case of chiefs and warlords.
The essence of this sacrifice is to announce the person’s arrival to the ancestral world and for his or her acceptance into the spirit world. It is also for the ancestors to overlook any of his past misdeeds and to show that the deceased still wants happiness in the future. It is also called the rites of separation (Aja ozu). There is a strong belief in the Igbo setting that families who did not perform such rites for the dead face a lot of consequences. There is also the belief that such rites must be performed for those who had previously performed such for their own parents, otherwise, death might be visited on the family. A lot of young people’s death in Igboland has been attributed to that belief. Unfortunately, the Christian religion, which has brought an end to many of the beliefs and practices, has not been able to prevent this trend for now. A 42-year-old Aba-based driver, Chinedu Nwaeke, would have been celebrating his 44th birthday on October 10 this year, if he was still alive. His death still made anybody who knew him very well to question the gods on why a man full of life passed to the great beyond four years ago just like that. Chinedu lost his father years ago, and because of hardship and poverty, his family was not able to sacrifice a she goat during his burial ceremony.
According to his best friend, Kingsley, who spoke with our correspondent, Chinedu’s death was a terrible one that shook the family and community. Kingsley said: “Chinedu was a man of the people because of his friendship to any one that came across him. That was why when the family raised the alarm that he was missing, every young man in the community came out to search for him. For three days, he went to the next town to visit someone, nobody knew his whereabouts. The search was extended to the next town. But we were not able to trace him until someone who was passing through a big gutter between the two communities perceived a horrible smell from the place. “The person called the attention of other passers-by and they summoned courage to find out what caused the smell, only to discover that it was the same Chinedu the whole community was searching for, who fell into the gutter and died there for three days. The community gathered again and his corpse was brought out from the gutter and they took it home. Without wasting time, Chinedu was buried. But his kinsmen insisted that they must find out what led to his death. “It is important to note, Chinedu was the only person among the three of his mother’s grown up sons that do come home to always see her from his base in Aba, Abia State. He was the one responsible for his mother’s wellbeing since his two elder brothers hardly came home. “But when Chinedu passed on, his mother’s sister, Ego, and her husband, who is a native doctor, promised to find out the cause of his death. A few days later, Chinedu’s mother told me their findings that, it was his dead father, who is not happy with his children. She said that even her elder sons who are not making progress was because of the incomplete burial of their father. That their father was still on the road since his death because the people in the other world have refused him entrance to the land beyond as his children refused to honour him.” Kingsley added: “Chinedu’s mother told me that her son-in-law has promised to provide a she-goat for the final burial sacrifice of her    husband. She also said that Chinedu’s sister, Ego, told them that since she was a young girl, she had been seeing her father in her dreams. Each time, she wanted to go close to him, he would disappear and that she had discussed it with some people. She said they told her that it was not a good sign from her father but she never took it seriously.” Kingsley further said that he believed Chinedu’s mother and her family had done something because, they learnt their lesson in a hard way. According to Kingsley, who is now based in Aba, the woman and her family must have killed the goat for the sake of her remaining two sons. Ezenwa Ukaegbu, a businessman and a native of Bende in Abia State, is known among his friends and family members as someone who loves to eat meat a lot.
His love for meat made people around him to name him Ezeanu, meaning ‘meat king’. But suddenly, Ezenwa stopped eating meat or if he eats, it must be the one he prepared by himself. The cause of his being mindful of the meat he eats the loss of his parents three years ago. He lost his father and mother and he and his elder brothers failed to provide a she-goat to his kinsmen to finalise their parents’ burial ceremony as demanded by their tradition. According to Ezenwa, it is a do-or-die affair in his hometown that people must provide the sacrifice of an animal, particularly a she-goat or a cow, for their dead parents. According to him, when he goes to his friends’ and any other family members’ burial ceremony, he hardly tastes their food to avoid eating the sacrificial meat. Ezenwa said that was because he buried his parents without killing any kind of animal as requested by his kinsmen because of his faith as a Christian.
He said: “I refused to yield to the demand of my kinsmen to provide a she-goat for my death parents each.” Ezenwa further noted that he was doing very well in business before his mother’s death but he was still in school when his father passed on.
According to him, some things began to happen to him a few years later, as his business began to nosedive. He said: “I was running helter-skelter, searching for solution to my business going down. That was before I travelled back home to talk to my maternal uncle, who is also a church leader, who told me what he saw for me in his dreams. But because he did not have my telephone number, he was unable to reach me. “He begged me to set Christianity aside and do what the kinsmen asked me to do for them by providing a goat for them. He told me that those men are my fathers too and as a Christian, I should obey them.”
According to Ezenwa, during his mother’s burial, he spent a lot of money which made the ceremony a talk of the town. He said: “I invited gospel musicians, different types of singers. Food was not a problem as people ate and went home with food. But when I was going around searching for the reason of my business not doing well, I went from one church to the other, one spiritual house to the other. This was on until a minister of God told me to go home and find out the cause of my problem. I did and my uncle told me that my parents were not happy with me and my elder brothers for our refusal to bury them properly. “I was very surprised when I was told that and the man didn’t say our refusal to sacrifice a she-goat demanded by some of the elders in the community was responsible for my predicament. When I mentioned the demand to my uncle, he insisted I should do it for them. “I remember that I met many pastors and prophets from the old and new generation churches for way out of my predicament. They all recommended various kinds of fasting and prayers, which I did not waste time to do as a committed Christian I see myself to be. That was until I went home and visited our maternal uncle, who is also a prophet and someone we trust more than our paternal uncles. When our father died, our maternal uncle treated us very well than our paternal uncles, who denied our father good treatment because we were still young when he died. They did not allow us to sell a portion of the family land and use the money to treat our father. Since then, we have never taken them seriously and don’t want to associate with them as our uncles. “My maternal uncle told us that God had revealed to him that we had wronged our parents. He talked sense into me. He said, ‘Ezenwa; you have the money, just buy the goat and give your people to kill and do whatever they want to do with it, to appease your dead parents’ hearts’. He said it was necessary so that things would be going well for us. “To him, he still believed that I was doing well but I was able to call some friends, who raised money for me. A few days later, I drove to the next village to buy she-goats and other things like tubers of yam. We took them to the elders in our community but they still requested that we should cook rice and buy drinks for them.”
Ezenwa added that even his elder brothers’ businesses were not doing well too. “My eldest brother, who was the first graduate in our community, was not doing very well as expected. That period, they were finding things difficult generally. On my own, I depended on some friends who showed me love because of the relationship I built with them,” he said.
Ezenwa explained that they followed their uncle’s advice and provided the two she-goats, one for his father and the other for his mother which was given to his kinsmen. The man added that he witnessed the killing of the animals and nothing strange was done to the she-goat which would have been against his faith as a Christian. Ezenwa narrated that he sat down closely and carefully watching what his kinsmen were doing with the animals made available to them. He watched if there was any special ritual to be performed with the goats. Rather, they killed the animals and prepared pepper soup with other things made available for them by his family members. According to him, the two she-goats were prepared with two cooked trays of rice and three cartons of beer and soft drinks. Ezenwa confessed that after his mission at his hometown and a few months later, his business picked up. Also, he was able to pay his debts which he acquired as a result of stagnation in his business before he went home to fulfil his parents’ burial rites. Pastor Uche Mbanaso of Assemblies of God Church said it was a big challenge in his life and his faith as he lost his elder brother, who was also a minister in the same church in a terrible situation as a result of what his people claimed to be their refusal to honour their dead father.
Mbanaso, who is the second son in the family, said when his father was buried, their kinsmen demanded a she-goat in order to complete burial ceremony. He said: “My elder brother and I strongly opposed our kinsmen’s request of a goat to be killed to finalise our father’s burial rites because of our faith. My elder brother told them that our obligation to our father was to put him in the ground as it is way of putting away the dead, which we have done. I was just watching with keen interest. “After the burial, we all left for our various places, remaining my elder brother who stayed back at home to arrange things in the house because he had not visited home for some time. After that, he would travel back to his place where he worked and pastored a church too. But within three months after our father’s burial, I received a call from one of the elders in our village who said my elder brother was dead. “The elder told me that they had gone to the next community to see a native doctor, who they claimed is very powerful, for divination. They found out that our father was not happy with us. And three days later, I went home to see how to bury him. I learnt that my elder brother was going to the next village to buy some building materials and he boarded a motorcycle. On the way, a tipper from nowhere hit him and the motorcycle operator behind. It was only my brother who fell down from the motorcycle and died immediately. The rider only sustained mirror injuries.” Mbanaso further said that when he came back home, his kinsmen insisted that he must complete his father’s burial rites. He said they told him that what happened to his brother was a sign that their father was not happy because his burial rites had not been completed.
Mbanaso said that he quickly gave one of them money and the person to buy a goat. According to him, he cannot actually say what happened to the goat but he saw that there was a goat in their compound.
The man said he had done his part and had been praying to God for direction. The Vicar of Saint Simon’s Anglican Church, Ikperejere Parish in Ihitte/Uboma Local Govern   ment Area of Imo State, Venerable Charles Akaniro, said that it was very important for parents to live a life worthy of emulation when they were alive.
According to him, if the parents are Christians and live a good life, there is no reason to perform sacrifice for them after their death. Akaniro said that the greatest testimony for everybody is to accept Christ Jesus who has made the greatest sacrifice for mankind and there should not be any other sacrifice.
Mr. Felix Abia, a printer, said that his situation was a huge burden that kept him and his younger ones sleepless at night. Abia said that before now, his grandfather sacrificed a she-goat for his dead parent but his own father as result of having more money in his pocket, killed a cow for his father (grandfather).
That means, according to him, the animal has changed from a goat to a cow, which they see as a burden which the family would continue to work with.
Abia noted that he had been very careful in eating meat anywhere, including burial ceremonies.
He said: “I don’t have money as the eldest son in the family to provide the cow when my father died. And the last time I travelled home, our uncle held a meeting and I was invited to talk to them about my preparation towards providing the cow. I told them that I didn’t have money and they should assist me to get the cow. To my surprise, they kept quiet and raised another topic, meaning that, ‘to your tent o Israel’. “I felt disappointed and decided on my own as a Christian to be very careful with them because they may try to do something funny to me or any member of my family to see that we do what they want us to do. “It is very important to understand that ‘evil’ has power and we should be very sensitive in spirit as Christians. I have refused to eat at any burial ceremony I attended in my hometown, so that they will not take the advantage to bewitch me.” Chief Onwegbu Ukeje from Bende Local Government Area of Abia State said that nobody would be able to say certainly why such culture was being observed in Igboland up till now. According to him, he always advises anybody who finds himself in such situation to do it and move on with his life for peace to reign. On why they always demand she-goats, Ukeje said that it was what they met their grandfathers doing and they grew old to join it. Ukeje explained that a Christian could buy the goat for burial sacrifice and monitor how the people involved make use of it, so that they would not go against their faith. He said: “From my experience on the animal sacrifice during burial ceremony, I have not seen any place where the people who killed the animal sprinkled the blood on the grave. Rather, they will kill the animal, either a cow or a goat, and prepare pepper soup with it. Sometimes, yam is provided for them and they cook the animal and eat it. Sometimes, the family will not see any of the meat. “Nobody remembers to throw any part of the meat to the direction of the grave of the person they claim to appease with the animal.” Sir Elisha Eke, a community leader, who is also a church leader, said that “it is a thing of belief and if the person who refused to partake hold on to his faith, then, so be it”.
Eke said that if the people involved could keep to themselves, and avoid participating or eating from such meat that emanated from burial sacrifice anywhere they were, there would be no problem.
He added: “But some of the young men now have ‘long throats,’ they eat whatever they come across without self-control.” Chief Ambrose Nnaji, a community leader and a native of Mbaise in Imo State, said that the development was a culture and rites performed by children to their fathers and mothers who had died. He said: “Most especially, it is rite to honour someone’s father or mother. Also, it is a kind of last farewell to them to the beyond and to appreciate their presence in the family before their departure to the other side of the world. Because in Igboland, we believe there is home after this earth and it is very important to solicit for the progress of the family even when they are no more there. “Also, it is a kind of telling the people which include your kinsmen, and the community, that your father or mother has passed on. There is nothing bad about it as Christians and non-Christians all observe it as part of respect for their dead fathers and mothers. People who fail to observe it or even think that it is against their faith to perform it, after many years, when nemesis begins to visit them, they run back home to perform it, which for me is penny wise, pound foolish. If not so, they will hardly enjoy peace or progress in their lives. I am a true witness of it and it is the reality.  “People should understand it very well as God says in the Bible, ‘give to God what belongs to Him and give Caesar what belongs to Caesar.’ Jesus never condemned tradition of his people in Israel. Rather, it is our people out of ignorance, who are neglecting their culture. In my place, they have been observing it and things have been going well for us. It is a generation thing because when your father’s father passed on, he must have honoured him and there is no reason why you should not do the same to your father.”
Nnaji noted that if the person refused to do it, he should surely not partake by eating where such rites took place. “If the person, who refuses to honour his father or mother, partakes in it, knowingly or unknowingly, there are always consequences. Either death or retrogression, in terms of financial progress, will be witnessed in the person’s life. The person will not do in anything in life and be successful; that is if that person doesn’t die,” he said.  Nnaji added that people, who refused to honour their dead parents, in their olden days, would realise it and blame themselves.
“It is a curse upon families that have the resources to fulfil the sacrifice but refuse to perform the rites. Christian faith apart, it is a final gift from children to their dead parents and also as a sign of respect. You may kill a goat or a cow, depending on your financial status, as long you honour your father or mother. That is my take.  “Although some people may not kill a goat or a cow during their parents’ burial ceremony, as result of lack of resources, the family will agree with their kinsmen, that they will do it later but the consequences are that in some cases, the implication starts manifesting immediately as the people begin to experience backwardness in their businesses. We should not forget that the ‘dead have ears and eyes to know what is happening around the living’. So, if someone is trying to deceive people around that he doesn’t have money to complete their dead parents’ burial, the dead know more than us the living. “Again, when it appears that you are not willing to honour them; problems will start coming direct or indirectly. So, it is advisable for the people to do it, no matter how small it seems to be,” he said. A traditionalist from Aguleri in Anambra State, High Chief John Melikam, blamed the neglect of the Igbo culture as result of the “foreign God” which the people embraced and abandoned theirs.
Melikam said that there was nothing to do about it and anyone who refused to observe it should then be ready to face the consequences. He said: “It is compulsory and there is nothing to do about it. It is about life and the white people cannot take away or stop what we inherited from our forefathers. In my place, it is compulsory to kill a cow for a chieftaincy title holder, not a goat. Their children must honour them with a cow. Anybody who wants to try the gods is on his own and see if the God of the white man will save him.” The General Overseer, the Redeemer Repentance Deliverance Ministry, Ogun State, Rev. Paul Onyenakeya, said that the only sacrifice Christians should do was done for them by Jesus Christ.
Onyenakeya noted that in his hometown, some people used to kill about two or three cows for burial ceremony, which, according to him, he is a waste of money. He added: “In most cases, apart from animal being used, human beings are sacrificed for royal burial ceremony in some towns in Igboland.  “My mother, when she was alive, told me to bring any money, I might have budgeted to buy cow during her burial ceremony to use. Not when she died, we will bring money to buy cow or elephant. I thank God that I took good care of my mother before she passed away.”
But, according to him, when someone dies and people believe it is as result of refusal to sacrifice an animal for his dead parents, the enemy within is using it against them. Onyenakeya advised that it was very important for those who called themselves Christians to always watch and pray against the manipulation of the devil.
According to him, people borrow money for burial ceremony and thereafter run into debt.  He said: “We should realise that we will not continue in the old ways of doing things. Because our forefathers did it don’t mean that we should do it. It is time the people should find out the reason of sacrificing animal for their dead parents. We should ask Holy Ghost to open our eyes and bring end to such practice that is causing death to the young men.”  A minister in the Methodist Church Nigeria, Pastor Kelechi Chikwe, said Christians were not supposed to participate in a system which “contradicts the word of God”.
Chikwe added that in such situation, Christians should play smart and use wisdom in dealing with the kinsmen. He said: “If it is the goat they want because they supported you in burying any of your parents, then give them. You may as well give it to the church people in the presence of your kinsmen. But as Christians, never participate in anything sacrifice or eating from it.”
However, a Senior Pastor of Celestial Church of Christ (CCC) at Iyana-Ipaja area of Lagos, Prophet Isaiah Olanrewaju, said that it was not only in Igboland such activities were observed.  Olanrewaju said that before his mother died, she warned that nobody should kill any type of animal for her during the burial ceremony. He said that they all respected his mother’s wish because of her relationship with God before her death.