Unknown gunmen have shot dead the Ohimini Local Government chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State, Mr. Boniface Okoloho. The deceased was reported to be returning home from a party function when he ran into the unknown gunmen who killed him instantly. The late APC chairman, until his death was the leader of the local government in the Zone C senatorial district of the state. Governorship candidate of the APC in the state, Hon. Emmanuel Jime in a swift reaction condemned the gruesome murder of the chairman of his party. Hon. Jime, who expressed deep sorrow over the killing of the late party chieftain, sued for peace and brotherliness in the politics of the state, and called on the State government and security agencies, to fish out the killers of late Okoloho and bring them to book to serve as a deterrent to others who may want to further the politics of violence. “I condemn in very strong terms, this unnecessary politics of violence and bloodshed, that has claimed the life of Mr. Okloho, our beloved brother and staunch member of our great party in Ohimini. “Mr. Okoloho was one of the very committed leaders of our party in Zone C and we regret that he lost his life in such a horrible circumstance, in the service of his state and his party. May his gentle soul rest in peace,”  Jime stated. Hon. Jime also commiserated with the family of the deceased, the people of Ohimini local government and the entire Zone C, calling on them to take solace in God. Abia State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Donatus Nwamkpa has been kidnapped by unknown gunmen few hours to the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari in Aba. New Telegraph gathered that Nwamkpa was kidnapped around the late hours of Monday on his way back from Umuahia to Aba… In "News" It's a personal gesture, says Jime   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue State yesterday said it has uncovered a plot by the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in next month's general election, Emmanuel Jime and his party, to blackmail both first and second class traditional rulers… In "News" Fish out killers, Fayemi tells police Gunmen, believed to be assassins, on Wednesday night murdered the treasurer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Moses Adeoye. The assailants invaded Adeoye’s house at Otun-Ekiti in Moba Local Government Area while he was taking dinner. They reportedly shot him in… In "Metro and Crime"