  No doubt, Nigeria boasts of talents who are international players in the field of art; people whose works contribute to global dialogue, and variety of issues bothering on human relations, existence, and all the emotions it creates, the social or political messages it is sending. All these are generally becoming more important than creating just a beautiful artwork. Award-winning performance artist Jelili Atiku ranks among this crop of artists. His on-going solo exhibition at Bridge Centre, Johnson and Wales University, Providence, RI, United States of America, and a group exhibition at Skoto Gallery, New York, examine the trauma, and segregation migrants face in their quest for greener pasture. The exhibition is part of activities to mark the Black History Month, also known as African-American History Month, in the U.S., to remember the important contributions and achievements of African-American in the history of the African Diaspora. February 1st marks the beginning of Black History Month. Each year, Americans set aside a few weeks to focus on the contributions people of African descent have made to this country. Titled ‘Let Me Ax Somtin’, the exhibition features works that centre on migration especially as it affects the black race. With 14 works Atiku paints and draws with ease expressing strong content on the issue of connection between the African-American people to Africa, and ancestors who were forcibly moved during slave trade, and who went through a lot of trauma, pains, contributing to building America. The pieces with diverse size created with acrylic and old stamps on paper were from the body of work he produced between January – December, 2018 while serving as Artist Protection fellow at Brown University, United States of America where he served as an assistant Professor in the university’s Department of Africana Studies, and artist in resident at Brown Arts Initiative (BAI). Through the works the artist seeks to contribute to the global dialogue on the consequences, aims and objective of United States, President Donald Trump Executive Order 13767, titled Border Security and Immigration Enforcement Improvements, issued on January 25, 2017 and Executive Order 13780, titled Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, signed on March 6, 2017. The pieces ultimately open discussion on the global issue on immigration which dates to human existence. From the works on parade Atiku takes viewers to a wide range of issues that are pertinent, his attempt to ask questions which the title of the exhibition suggested. The work titled, The Core Brown, the Core Me, acrylic and old stamps on paper, measuring 100.5cm by 76cm, examines the colour of the black skin, and why racism became diplomatic. With colour brown, and board lines which stand for the restriction, the work shows the experiences the black race has gone through both during slave trade. Each of the works comes with old stamp as a metaphor of migration. “The president word, shithole propelled me to produce the works; if the President of America can use such word that Africa is a shithole, he is therefore attacking the black race. l use the stamp as a metaphor for migration. Stamp moves from one place to another, just like objective which move from one place to another,” Atiku said. To a great extent, each title of the work will make one understand what the artist is talking about. For instance, the work Look into ‘My Eyes’, ink and old stamps on paper measuring 61cm by 46cm. In the work, he uses lines to certify the horror of migration. Taking a closer look at the work, one can see a physiologically traumatized image forced to move from one place to another. The work is liken to the era of slave trade when Africans were moved with chain during slavery, though slave trade has gone, but the slavery of the capitalism is still been felt.  “Nigerian political system is tailored in the line of America, that is part of the slavery, we don’t even understand the system and the continent is already bastardized with the western idea, so people are forced to move to where they will find greener pasture. Each of the stamps is from different part of the world. African is been move to different part of the world, our resources is been moved to every continent daily,” he said. Artist, and Curator, Raphael Diaz speaks passionately about the works. He said: “I was very impressed with one of his works “Look into my Eyes”. I was struck by the beauty of this work because through lines and simple colors, I could sense his heritage and struggles.
“I asked to meet with Atiku and invited him to a solo exhibition at Johnson and Wales University. The reason why I wanted him to show his work here, it was not just because we are celebrating Black History Month but, because I want the people of my state to also feel what I felt when I saw his work. I genuinely love for life and respect for others. Not only, I am inviting him to show his work here but also I want him to exhibit his works in the Dominican Republic and Cuba.” Describing the works of the award winning artist, who is a recipient of the prestigious Prince Claus award, Diaz further stated: “His works is Ancestral, as a heritage of man, of the beads that surround him that is part of our millenary heritage. Overcome the dust of oblivion; characters and fleeting scenes that populate our particular universe, unknown forms of the remote past crisscrossing with the everyday, unmasking unloved memories and overcoming the deceitful mirages with fleeting epiphanies that pass through our ordinary existences,” he said. Widely known for his performances and video arts with political concerns for human rights and justice which he has showcased around the world, Atiku brings to the fore burning issues with the showcase, and one is tempted to ask the relevance of the Black History month, but Diaz, explains its significance thus: “Black History month for me is to celebrate the life and legacy of Martin Luther King jr. and all the people that followed him before and after his death. Also, the contribution of black people to the growth of our nation. We celebrate every great artist and people like president Obama, Rosa Park. Athletes like Jacky Robison, Jesse Owen. Many black people that made many sacrifices, so that we can have a better place to live here in the states today.”  Expressing his excitement in showcasing the works of the artist in Johnson and Wales University, Bridge Centre, the Centre Coordinator, Firoj Gurung said; “We are extremely pleased to display Jelili Atiku’s artworks. Vivid colours and a unique technique of using postage stamps,” he said. The Wheatbaker is set to host the Contemporaries II in celebration of the Nigerian Independence Day. It will showcase 38 sculptures, paintings, and mixed media works by three avant-garde contemporary artists: Kainebi Osahenye, Kenny Adewuyi and Kelani Abass. The Contemporaries II exhibition, which is supported by the Wheatbaker and… In "Arts & Entertainments" With over 70 art exhibitions and events, Lagos-based art gallery, Mydrim Gallery has no doubt carved a niche for itself in art marketing and management. Most memorable among these exhibitions include the ‘Living Masters exhibition’, held in 2007; Nigeria at 50 photography exhibition at the instance of the Lagos… In "Arts & Entertainments" Despite the economic challenges as a result of recession which began last year ended early this year, according to experts, the arts and culture sector in Nigeria fared well with series of activities, notably live theatre, especially musicals, carnivals, exhibitions, art fairs among others, took centre stage. Significantly, the golden… In "Arts & Entertainments"