 Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos, Mr. Jimi Agbaje has alleged that there were manipulation of results of last Saturday’s elections, calling on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately release them. Agbaje, who addressed newsmen in his campaign office on Ikorodu Road, Lagos, wondered why 48 hours after polls ended, the commission still failed to release all results. He said: “As I speak today, we have a situation where results are being delayed. It is two days now and results are not being released in Lagos State. And they are not being released in areas where we, PDP, have strength. “And that is deliberate. We have a situation where results are being tampered with. That is not going to be acceptable to us. We will not accept results that have been tampered with in Lagos State. “The problems started from the polling units. The guidelines were very clear, that after election and counting of votes, election results are supposed to be pasted on the wall at the polling unit. We have no reports that election results were posted anywhere in Lagos State. That was the beginning of the problem.  “At the collation centres, we had a lot of intimidation of our agents. The ruling party had a multiplicity of party agents representing it. We had a situation where officials of the Lagos state government showed up and were represented in their numbers against the lone voices of our agents. We had a situation where our collation agents were arrested, leaving us unrepresented at the collation stage. That again is not acceptable to us. “We go back to the elections’ day wherein a lot of cases, we had a situation where the card readers did not function, including my own voting unit. It created a situation where the electoral agents were unable to verify the identity of voters vis-a-vis the PVCs presented.  “Now we are calling on security agents to bring to book those who caused the mayhem in Okota, Coker Aguda and several other places in Lagos State. And that is very important. If we are going to talk about democracy, then we have to practice the culture. It means that everybody will play his part. Voters will come and vote and we have assured them that their votes count. “Where we disenfranchise many voters then we are just paying lip service to our democracy. We have places where not less than 37 polling units in one local government have their votes canceled and stolen. And this was done very openly; it is on camera.”