STRIKE While Nigerian students have continued to hail the suspension of the over three months nationwide indefinite strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) last week, the union has said that the agitation won’t be over until the Federal Government fulfilled all the agreements   More than three months in the trenches, the nation’s public universities last week heaved a sigh of relief as normal academic activities resumed in the once bogged down system by the protracted strike. Thanks to the last Thursday suspension of the nationwide indefinite strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) that paralysed academic activities in the universities. But, the strike was suspended at the 10 meetings between the ASUU and the Federal Government negotiation team led by the Minister of Employment, Labour and Productivity, Dr. Chris Ngige and his Education counterpart, Mallam Adamu Adamu after several faikled attempts at resolving the crisis. The union and government despite the series of meeting could not resolve the crisis as all the former meeting ended in a deadlock. However, the suspension of the strike was not without a caveat: that ASUU would not hesitate to go back to the trenches if the government reneged on the agreements. Piqued by the failure of the government and ASUU to resolve the crisis, the Nigerian students, under the aegis of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) threatened to mobilise the students across the country to protest non-resolution of the protracted strike before the general elections. The students, as part of their claim, alleged that apart from losing academ-ically, they would also be disenfranchised from voting in the 2019 general elections if the strike was not called off or suspended. According to the students’ union, many of the students registered for their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) on their campuses or within the university communities and failure to resolve the logjam before the election, would denied them their civic right of voting. However, following the announcement for the suspension of the strike at 10th meeting between ASUU and the Federal Government, the students, who have continued to count their loses and lament the industrial action, described the suspension as a welcome development, saying that they are happy going back to their campuses in readiness for lectures. The university lecturers, under their umbrella union, the Academic Staff Union of Universities had on November 4, 2018 called its members to stay away from their classrooms and laboratories to protest what the union described as nonimplementation of the various agreements signed with the Federal Government since 2009. Describing the suspension of the strike as a welcome development, the President of NANS, Danielson Akpan, said: “We are happy and it is good development. Great Nigerian students, our members, are now back to their classes. Though the loss is enormous on the part of the students, it is a good thing that the Federal Government and ASUU have finally agreed to resolve their differences. “It is a good thing also that the Federal Government has finally acceded to the demands of ASUU for enhanced university system. It has been a long battle, but it is all over now. We are greatly happy.” Speaking on the students’ participation in the forthcoming general elections, Akpan noted that the students, who registered for their Permanent Voters Cards on the campuses, would now have the opportunity to collect their cards and participate in the election. “Though, the suspension is close to election period, notwithstanding, we are happy and our members have returned to campuses. Now, the students can participate fully in the election. The students will no longer be disenfranchised. It is a good development,” he added. Meanwhile, the management of the Lagos State University (LASU) had in a release immediately after the announcement of the suspension last week, tagged: Resumption of Academic Activities: Getting LASU Back on Track,” urged the students to resume immediately. It said: “Academic activities for the ongoing session resume immediately. We urge our world-class students to earnestly do what is expected of them in the areas of course registration, payment of school fees and preparation for examination as we cannot afford to further drag our academic calendar.” While welcoming the students back on campus, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Lanre Fagbohun, in the release said: “For us at Lagos State University, the journey continues. Our semester and session have been overstretched, which explains why we all must fully work together to get the LASU academic calendar back on track.” The university has also unfolded plans to hold a town hall meeting with members of the university community, which is aimed at providing a platform to chart a collective strategy that addresses identified issues and spotlights proffered solutions. The university, according to the release signed by the Vice-Chancellor, would also look up to all members of staff in every department, unit, faculty, directorate and centre to provide leadership and work towards ensuring all academic and administrative activities hit top gear immediately. On the need for all stakeholders to brace up for the challenges of academic activities, the statement added further that “we are once again called upon to collectively push the frontiers of knowledge and to stand up for the ideals of the founding fathers and ensure that no bottleneck draws back the system in any form.” Meanwhile, ASUU had declared the strike to demand improved funding of universities and implementation of previous agreements with the government. The grouse of the union include the implementation of the 2009 FGN/ ASUU Agreements, Memorandum of Understanding (MoU; 2012 and 2013) and Memorandum of Action (MoA, 2017). It also demanded the release of the forensic audit report on Earned Academic Allowances; payment of all outstanding earned academic allowances and mainstreaming of same into salaries beginning with the 2018 budget. Other outstanding issues in the crisis, according to the union, include the funding for the revitalization of public universities based on the FGN-ASUU MoU of 2012, 2013 and the MoA of 2017; reconstitution of the current Govern-ment Team to allow for a leader and Chairman of the FG-ASUU Renegotiating team who has the interest of the nation and the people at heart; and the release of the forensic audit report on Earned Academic allowances (EAA), offsetting the outstanding balance of the EAA and mainstreaming of same into the 2018 budget. Part of ASUU’s agitation are the payment of all arrears of shortfall in all universities that have met the verification requirements of the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA); provision of a platform by the Federal Government for ASUU to engage governors on the proliferation of universities, underfunding of university education and undue interference in the affairs of the universities; release of PFA operational license to NUPEMCO; and payment of EAA to loyal ASUU members at the University of Ilorin. Following the non-resolution of the crisis, ASUU had earlier threatened that ASUU as a union would not participate in the conduct of 2019 general elections, saying although members may voluntarily participate in the conduct of the election. “However, members are prohibited from participating in the election processes using any material that bears ASUU or relates to the union,” it then said. The National President of ASUU, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, who led ASUU negotiation team at the 10th reconciliatory mjeeting, while announcing the suspension of the strike, however, warned “should the Federal Government fail to fulfill its promises as contained in the 2019 MoA, ASUU would not hesitate to go back to the trenches.” According to him, following a careful review of the report of engagements with the Federal Government on proposals for addressing all outstanding in the 2013 MoU and 2017 MoA, NEC resolved that the strike by the union should be suspended conditionally with effect from Friday February 8. “However, should government fail to fulfill its part of the agreement as reflected in the 2019 Memorandum of Action, ASUU shall resume its suspended strike action as the union deems necessary,” the union said. Before suspending the lingering crisis, the agreement ASUU reached with government as contained in the 2019 MoA, include the release of N25 billion in addition to the N20 billion for 2018, to be released in April/May 2019, after which government would resume full implementation of the MoU of 2013. Others are part-payment of the outstanding arrears of the earned academic allowances; defraying the balance up to 2018 in four tranches within 36 months; and mainstreaming further payments of EAA into the annual budgets beginning from 2019 budget. Also in the list of ASUU’s grievances is the PICA verification and the release of the arrears of salary shortfall at the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, not later than 15th February 2019; strengthening the Consultative Committee on State-owned Universities (CCSOU), inaugurated on Monday, January 28, 2019 to look into the issues of proliferation, underfunding and governance to consistently deliver on its mandate. They also agreed on the payment of the outstanding EAA arrears of all eligible members of staff in the University of Ilorin, especially the loyal ASUU members, whose appointments were illegally terminated. ASUU also acknowledged the government for facilitating the release of the final letter of approval for the granting of operational license to NUPEMCO, while calling for visitation to all federal universities to commence tentatively by March 11, 2019. Part of the new agreements include, among others, provision of documented guidelines on procedures and roles of parties in the process of renegotiating FGN-ASUU Agreement of 2009, which would commence not later than February 18, 2019 and end by Friday, March 29, 2019.” Ogunyemi, however, condemned the actions of vice-chancellors, who had undermined or attempted to break the union’s patriotic struggles for the revitalisation of public universities in the country. For instance, the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) did not join the strike as normal academic activities were going on during the period of the strike, which led to the conduct of the Rain Semester examinations that were concluded last week. Miffed by the development and other similar cases, Ogunyemi said: “ASUU will not shy away from taking headlong those Vice-Chancellors, who are reputed for acts of impunity, nepotism and other forms of conduct which are antithetic to university culture and the progressive development of our universities. Our union will compile all their shenanigans and forward them to relevant authorities for further action.”