 In spite of the biblical injunction to “be still and see what the Lord will do,” the church in Nigeria was not shielded from a fair share of the anxiety which the heat of electioneering brought upon other Nigerians, ahead of the ongoing polls in the country. Our correspondent, who went round various churches to feel the pulse of the faithful, last Sunday, reports that the fear of the unknown forced many worship arenas to direct torrents of prayer bullets to heaven’s gate, practically asking God to intervene in the electoral process. Some clerics who spoke to Sunday Telegraph at different interviews, expressed concern pointing out that the body language of the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) glaringly shows that the party wants to retain power at all cost just as the major opposition, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP} was determined to send the APC out of the seat of power, Aso Rock. The situation, they say is inimical to peaceful conduct of free, fair and credible elections. When our correspondent visited the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) on Sunday, the revered General Overseer of the Church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye asked the members, asked members to pray for peaceful election. Daddy G O, as he is fondly called, asked the members to pray specifically, and parishes to pray for God’s mercy. “Ask God to have mercy on you, mercy over your family, mercy over your Church, mercy of Nigeria,” he charged the members.
It was reliably learnt that this has been one of the prayer points of the Church, since the beginning of the year and its 49 days fasting and prayer programme, which started on Friday, January 2019. Furthermore, Pastor Adeboye enjoined the church to ensure that they exercise their civic right by ensuring that they vote. “If you do not vote, you have no right to complain about the government. Vote for the party of your choice,” he said. Bishop Segun Adewunmi of House of Prayers Ministries explained that the heat of electioneering and other socio political issues in the country warranted that fervent prayers be offered to God for him to intervene in the affairs of the county. He said: “We prayed that God will intervene in the electoral exercise in the interest of the masses of our country. We want God to intervene because we want the country to be better for everyone.” Rev. James Akinadewo of Motailatu Church Worldwide said that his church had been praying and fasting for the past one week. “We have been praying for a hitch free, violent free, fair and credible election. A lot is happening in this country; there is a lot of blood she, political killings, invasion of communities and we don’t want further bloodshed because it is setting our country back and hindering development. “So we have asked God to intervene so that Nigerians can live peacefully with each other,” Akinadewo said. Some ministers prayed slightly different. For instance, the Senior Pastor of House on the Rock, Pastor Paul Adeferasin specifically prayed that a young aspirant emerge from the various elections. His words: “I wish that young leaders will continue to emerge from all over Nigeria to fulfill the divine mandate of God, which is to take Nigeria to a place of glory.”  At the Synagogue Church of All nations (SCOAN}, Senior Prophet Temitope balogun Joshua, explained that the church had been praying for the wellbeing of Nigeria.
He, however, gave a message of hope saying: ““I want to tell you that no matter the situation; be calm. God is in control.” According to Joshua, “the aftermath of the elections may “look very fearful. You will see the clouds so dark as if it’s about to rain – but suddenly the dark cloud disappears. But Nigerians will have greater cause to respect God after the elections.”