A suspected robber, Idowu Popoola, has been arrested by the Anti-Cultism Unit of the Lagos State Police Command, after allegedly snatching a car at Akure, Ondo State. Popoola was intercepted at Ijanikin area while trying to escape with the KIA Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) with registration number MUS 910 DA, which he snatched at Akure, Ondo State. After Popoola hijacked the car, he drove it to Lagos, planning to sell it. But he was arrested before he could find a buyer. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, said Popoola was arrested at Ijanikin area of the metropolis. He said: “A team of Anti-Cultism operatives led by CSP Uduak Isaac, attached to the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligent Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, while on patrol, accosted the suspect with the car. The suspect was arrested when he couldn’t give reasonable explanation about the car. The unit moved the suspect to its office, where he later confessed that he stole the car from Akure and brought it to Lagos to look for a buyer.” “The suspect said that he belonged to a three-man robbery gang. The vehicle was snatched at gunpoint by his gang on February 2, in Akure, Ondo State.” Muazu said the owner of the vehicle had been contacted, while investigation into the matter was still ongoing. The commissioner said that the police were already on the trail of the two fleeing members of the gang. The owner of the car, Mr. Olaniran Olanusi, was returning from a function when the three suspects swooped on him and collected his car at gunpoint. He said: “Initially, I didn’t know the armed robbers were trailing me. When I got to the gate of my estate, I honked repeatedly for the gateman to open the door for me. I was still at the gate, waiting for the gateman to open the gate, when the three suspects alighted from a motorbike and ordered me to come down. “They ordered me to hand over my car key to them. When I tried to play smart with them, they threatened to kill me. Immediately, I ran out of the car and left it for them. When I eventually came back, they had left with my car. It was on Tuesday that I received a call from Lagos Command that my car had been recovered. It was a surprise to me. I thought I wouldn’t find it again.”