Ahead of the general elections, the Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the emplacement of maximum security across the country, with a view to guaranteeing a free, fair and credible exercise. The IGP further directed that offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other critiitscal facilities nationwide, be adequately protected against possible attacks. Zonal Assistant Inspectors General (AIGs) as well as Commissioners of Police in charge of the 36 State Commands and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are to enforce the directive with immediate effect. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), Mr. Frank Mba, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, who conveyed the directive in a statement yesterday, assured of a level playing ground for all political actors. “The IGP Mohammed Adamu, has ordered a comprehensive watertight and round-theclock security for all INEC offices and facilities nationwide. “Consequently, Command Commissioners of Police in the 36 states of the Federation and FCT have been directed to put in place adequate, functional and purposeful security arrangements aimed at protecting all INEC offices and materials from all forms of crimes and mischief, before, during and after the elections. “Zonal Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) have also been mandated to monitor compliance level of Commands under their jurisdiction with this directive, and ensure that no breach of security of any kind occurs within and around INEC facilities under their watch. The order takes immediate effect,” Mba said. The IGP also assured Nigerians of the readiness of the Nigeria Police Force to deliver on its mandate of providing a safe and enabling environment for the conduct of the general elections. Adamu reiterated the commitment of the Force to providing a level playing field for all political actors, while remaining professional and apolitical in the discharge of its responsibilities. While the Presidential and National Assembly elections scheduled for Saturday, February 16, the governorship and House of Assembly poll will hold on March 2.