  Private global investors and lenders have shunned participation in the scramble for $9 billion annual funding by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), New Telegraph has learnt.
The global initiative designed to help governments and societies effectively harness opportunities created by their natural resources – Natural Resource Charter (NRC), disclosed this in its latest Benchmarking Exercise Report (BER) released through its Nigeria’s affiliate.
It noted that the Corporation, which “needs at least $9 billion annually to fund its operations,” has, however, “failed to get the money from government’s funding windows and private investors who reportedly do not trust its commitment to corporate governance.”
NNPC “has largely failed to convince private investors of its commitment to corporate governance and commercial efficiency, in addition to failing to, as part of standard practice, open its books for public scrutiny,” NRC said.
“The combined effect of low transparency and accountability, ineffective corporate governance and commercial ineffectiveness, among others, may explain the inability of the Corporation to attract sufficient funds and have a workable funding mechanism for its operation over the years,” said NNRC.
Meanwhile, the Corporation, it was gathered last weekend, had heightened technical financing model, through which it had now secured three foreign lenders’ nods.
Some of the financing companies approached by NNPC to revamp the country’s refineries, according to the Corporation, have shown interest in Port Harcourt refinery.
Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, disclosed this, maintaining that a team of engineers from the Corporation had gone abroad to source for financiers to ensure revamping of the major refineries in the country.
“About three financing companies have indicated interest, their names are yet to be made public, but they have shown interest for Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna refineries. They, however, showed the most interest for the Port Hacourt refinery,” he said.
He reassured that with the on-going commitment, the projected timeline of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, for the refineries to be up and running by 2019 would be achieved, particularly with the coming on stream of the Dangote refinery.
The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), it would be recalled, had said that the decision of NNPC to continually ignore the operational manuals issued by the OEMs of its four refineries in Warri, Kaduna and Port Harcourt, led to the collapse of the refineries.
NSE stated that the refineries with a combined refining capacity of 445,000 barrels of oil per day (bd) have remained fairly broken down from years of NNPC choosing to look away from the maintenance instructions contained in the operational manuals of their OEMs.
Similarly, government might not query the N264 billion investments injected into the Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) for Nigeria’s four ailing refineries. Investigations by this newspaper revealed that the Federal Government had jettisoned any plans to review the investments made between 1999 and 2015 on the refineries, despite ineffectiveness of the contracts.
Instead, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, said in a podcast that the Federal Government was aggressively pursuing the refineries’ improvement programme to realise its agenda to end fuel importation by 2019.
A senior officer at the Ministry of Petroleum Resources told this newspaper that government would not reopen books on the investments made on maintenance of the installations.
The nation’s three refineries located in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna, documents of NNPC showed, had gulped up to $1.746 billion or N264 billion using a 16 year average USD/naira exchange rate of N150.99/$1.
The source said, after his anonymity had been guaranteed: “It is a consensus that we move forward and tread softly on money spent on TAM, especially between 1999 and 2011. Even though the $1.746 billion covers spending up to 2015, we all know that the president had said he was not interested in probing spending during the time of former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Umaru Musa Yar’adua.
“I can assure you that except a miracle happens, no one in this government will open up the investments made on TAM. Instead, the ministry is determined more than before to move away from the approach of quick fixes and undertake a comprehensive revamp of the plants.”
The four refineries located in Port Harcourt (two), Warri and Kaduna have a combined capacity to refine 445,000 barrels of crude per day. Inefficiencies of these refineries had worsened the deficit in supply of petroleum products and raised dependence on importation of the products.