…accuses Ambassador of interference, bias  The Presidential Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday, warned the United States’ Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart W. Symington and other western diplomats to desist from interference in the upcoming elections in Nigeria.  The council said it was “deeply concerned” about the series of warnings emanating from Symington and his colleagues in the diplomatic community about ‘flawed elections,’ stressing that such utterances were capable of casting an unwarranted cloud over the electoral process even before the elections. Director, Strategic Communications, APC Presidential Campaign Council, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN), said that while the ruling party in Nigeria appreciates the interest of the diplomatic community in the forthcoming elections, it was uncomfortable with many of the utterances of these diplomats, which appear as if they have taken a position to discredit the election even before citizens cast their ballots.  “We truly hope some of the statements attributed to these diplomats are inaccurate. For instance, it was reported that Ambassador W. Stuart Symington threatened to “hold to account” anyone whose speech, no matter the motivation of that speech, engendered hatred.  We all agree that any speech willfully intended to trigger violence is condemnable. “However, in condemning other forms of political speech, the American envoy overstepped his ambassadorial brief. For instance, the American Ambassador was reported to have condemned a situation where a candidate says that his opponent’s political and economic policies are abhorrent and dangerous to the greater welfare of the people and calls on the citizens to hate and reject such policies. “In our view, this is a correct statement because it is the duty of the candidate to tell the people these truths to protect the nation from subsequent calamity.  But Ambassador Symington says his country would punish such necessary political speeches. “For us, it is significant to note that such strong political speeches are not unlawful in the United States, but Ambassador Symington is seeking to penalize such speeches by Nigerians. He seeks to shrink our ambit of free speech so that we may behave in accordance with their vision of well-behaved Africans, rather than in consonance with our vision of our own democracy, no matter how tumultuous and dramatic we may be. “It would appear that his position seeks to prohibit forms of expression integral to our political discourse. These forms of expression have, time and time again, been adjudged to be constitutionally protected speeches by the United States Supreme Court.  “However, Ambassador Symington intentionally issued his threats to place a chilling effect on speeches in Nigeria that, if uttered in America, would be constitutionally protected. Unfounded allegations and threats to penalize people for constitutionally protected free speech is improper interference in our internal affairs. Sadly, what Ambassador Symington and some other western diplomats are doing border on the improper,” he said. Keyamo said that the persistent warnings by the U.S. Ambassador Symington and other diplomats amounted to implicit attacks against the government of Nigeria. According to him, these interventions implied that the Nigerian government was inclined to rig the election in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari.  He said such assumption was unfair and unacceptable to the campaign council, as President Buhari had never   been accused of electoral malpractice in his entire political career. “It is unfortunate that most of these countries that sermonize about free and fair elections have ugly histories of denial of voting right to people because of their colour and are still facing many challenges with their electoral systems till date. “An American ambassador has a great responsibility in representing the strongest economic and military power in the world. His comments carry weight because of the status of his nation.  This means his comments should reflect a deep knowledge of the subject. Sadly, Ambassador Symington has not shown the deep knowledge of Nigerian situation. The impression he creates by constantly harping on suspected government interference with the electoral process is that President Buhari cannot win without tipping the results. He seems to be saying that only a PDP victory will be evidence of a fair election,” he said. Keyamo argued that it was erroneous to postulate that President Buhari cannot win a free and fair election.  He accused the Ambassador of bias and substituting his subjective conclusions for the sovereign will of the Nigerian people. “In doing so, he has abandoned the impartiality of a true envoy and has trespassed into interfering in our electoral process. Instead of encouraging free and fair   elections, these judgemental statements and threats only cast an unnecessary pall over the elections and the nation. This is an international disservice and not international diplomacy.  The days of unquestioned condescension to Western powers are long gone and we are not prepared at this time in Nigeria to recede to that era. “Nigerians will define Nigeria’s democracy. We shall hold fair and just elections, not because of scolding by diplomats, but because we have sufficient intelligence and morality to do what is right for ourselves.  “If Ambassador Symington truly intends to be impartial, his statements should acknowledge that both government and opposition (particularly in states where the opposition have governors in place) must respect the process and refrain from rigging. We expect him to counsel both governing party and the opposition from any form of electoral malpractice. After all, it is not only governments at the centre that rig elections. Elections can also be rigged in opposition-controlled areas.  “It is not too late for Ambassador Symington to repair the damage of his uninformed statements. He needs to speak as an impartial envoy instead of a person who appears to have prejudged the quality of the process and the outcome. Until he attains that level of informed impartiality, whatever good he seeks is better achieved by his silence than by tendentious utterances,” he said.