The Association of Lagos Titled Chiefs has expressed concern over the erosion of self-regulation in the judiciary, calling for more attention to the ethical demands of integrity and credibility in the third arm of government. In a statement signed by its President, Chief Iyabo Foresythe, the body noted that the political atmosphere in the country is unduly charged owing to the judicial impasse. “Nigeria cannot afford economic, political and judicial crisis, so we must all hold strongly to the respect of the rule of law, due process, separation of powers, independence of the judiciary and adherence to constitutional provisions. “A political and judicial crisis at this period is a major distraction the nation cannot afford. From the recent unfolding events, it is obvious that our institutions are too fragile with limited capacity to meet the basic demands of Nigerians for good gov-ernance and development,” it said. On the issue of corruption and the manner it affects the society, the statement reads: “As key stakeholders in the Lagos City State, we are seriously concerned about the entrenched culture of corruption in the country. “The society has always looked upon the third arm of government, the judiciary, to ensure justice is not just done but seen to be done to all. The core principles of the rule of law, which stipulates that no one is above the law, should be the compass driving the wheel of justice. “We hold strongly that officers of the third arm of government should in their own character be beyond reproach, or at any rate should have so disciplined themselves that they are no breakers of the law. In the line of duty, time and time again they are robed to pronounce judgment on those who have offended against the law, rebuke the evil and support the good. “We must all protect the reputation of Nigerian judges and save the judiciary, the last hope of the common man The statement noted that given the right environment, Nigeria will witness an economic renaissance. “We must promote education and skills that will allow the Nigerian child to compete formally in the 21st century knowledge economy, build the next generation of leaders that will drive the economic growth and development of the nation into the future,” the statement added.