Dr. Dayo Hephzibah Oladebeye, the first alumnus of the Federal Polytechnic (ADOPOLY), Ado-Ekiti to be appointed substantive Rector of the polytechnic, speaks with ADEWUMI ADEMIJU about the challenges facing tertiary education in the country, and the panacea to the disparity between products of the system and their university counterparts, among other issues  As the first alumnus of the polytechnic to be appointed the Rector of the polytechnic, what is your vision for institution? Well, being the first alumnus to become the Rector of this our great polytechnic, where I graduated almost 32 years ago, I have mapped out a great vision for the institution. To be modest, primarily our mission as one of the foremost polytechnic in the country is to be an entrepreneurial institution in the conceptual sense of it. In fact, the Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti is actually producing quality graduates and highly skilled technical manpower for the economy, and already it is adequately prepared for the technological emancipation of Nigeria with a view to delivering the nation from the current economic cobweb. That is a very great vision I have for the institution; to ensure that this aspect of knowledge-driven developmental stride is achieved in its quest of the country for socio-economic growth. In a nutshell, my vision and my team of management is to take the polytechnic to the next level in the production of graduates who are entrepreneurial inclined and skilled for the technical development of the country and to be self-reliant For some years now, there has been a glowing clamour to convert polytechnics to universities for the award of Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) as obtained in other climes. What is your take on this? First and foremost, there are two major issues in this statement. The first issue is converting polytechnics to universities, and the other one is that polytechnics to be able to award B.Tech. Now, on the first issue, I don’t think that only when converting to university that should make polytechnics able to award Bachelor of Technology certificate. Of course, I quite agree that polytechnic should be granted the permission to award Bachelor of Technology, because that is actually what polytechnics are supposed to be doing. Polytechnics are technology-oriented institution. Again, in the developed countries all over the world, the award of Higher National Diploma (HND) like our polytechnics are still doing is no more in vogue. People have now come to terms with degrees, and so if the conventional universities, especially some of them that are not technologically-based can award Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) and Bachelor of Arts (BA) in their courses, polytechnics that have as core mandate production of highly skilled technical manpower should be awarding Bachelors in Technology without necessarily converting to universities to do that. Some British polytechnics were converted to universities in this regard. Although, that was not necessary, because they still run and award HND, Bachelors, Masters Degree without necessarily converting. For instance, Crown Field Institute of Technology in Bretford, United Kingdom, which is now Crown Field University of Technology, was formerly a polytechnic that ran as an institute. Many of our staff attended the institution and after their HND in Nigeria they went to the institution for preliminary Engineering and to acquire Masters Degree from the polytechnic, while they also have the opportunity to pursue their PhD. Along the line, the British authority decided to convert those polytechnics to universities. What I am trying to say here is that when those institutions were polytechnics, they were still able to perform their core roles.Similarly, in Canada, even after Bachelor Degree, they still need to go to institute for Diploma programmes for them to be adjudged as competent in their disciplines, and that is what polytechnic stands for, even in Nigeria. I am not of the opinion that converting polytechnic in Nigeria to university will provide the magic. However, those agitating for that may have their points as well, perhaps in terms of recognition and the issue of dichotomy between polytechnic and university graduates that makes them to say why not converting the polytechnics to universities so that they would be on the same pedestal. But, with that polytechnics might lose their core mandate of producing highly skilled graduates and manpower in the technical line. Paucity of funds has been identified as a major challenge affecting tertiary education development in country, but how do you plan to shore up the polytechnic’s internally generated revenue? On poor funding, we have come to terms with that and that is the reason tertiary institutions in Nigeria have taken the bull by the horns to generate funds on their own to be able to complement or supplement what government is giving them. At the Federal polytechnic, Ado Ekiti we are working hard, though we are not yet there. We have a lot of challenges. We are looking at different areas to generate more revenues in terms of increasing our carrying capacity, developing more programmes, looking at business organs of the polytechnic ventures, as well as collaborating with the various departments in developing their programmes. Over years, we have been able to come up with products that could sell anywhere, especially now that the government is talking about diversification from the oil sector to other areas of the economy. This has provided the windows of opportunities for us, as a polytechnic to develop the products and various business units that we have. Apart from paucity of funds, what other challenges are militating against polytechnic education, and how could these be addressed? It’s a problem we have been grappling with for so long. Again, the issue of societal recognition of what polytechnics education could offer is one of the problems and that is why we have a great diversion of applicants who wanted to enter into universities at all cost and even colleges of education. Of course, this has to do with understanding and views of the society about polytechnic education which is training and production of graduates with high skilled technical manpower that can change things around, especially the economy of nation. If the society can recognise that, if proper recognition is given to polytechnic education, and if the government can motivate the system, and declare a state of emergency in the polytechnic education sub-sector by recognising the fact that this is the sector that can bring about the much needed change, it shall be better and the nation will benefit tremendously from this. Recently a group sued the Federal Government over the continued disparity and dichotomy against the polytechnic products. What is your reaction to this? I don’t think it should degenerate to that extent. Though, I am not aware of the content of the group’s agitation. It is about dichotomy against polytechnic graduates? As a polytechnic graduate, it depends on the way you go about it, whether you are a polytechnic or university graduate, it depends on what you are able to offer. As a polytechnic graduate, when I was in school for further studies, the university I attended with Bachelor Degree holders, I always came top in the class. Even, my professors preferred to deal with me to some of my mates, who have Bachelor Degrees. There are areas where university graduates are good just as we have areas where HND holders are equally good. The most important thing is for people, especially polytechnic graduates in this regard to be able to demonstrate their competence. But, then the government should be able to compare the outputs of the two systems and with that the dichotomy would gradually fizzle out. In my own case, I am a polytechnic graduate, but I didn’t rest on my oars as I still went further and I got to the apex of education. What I am saying in effect is that it all depends on indi-vidual. After all, the government is not putting a limitation to where anybody can get to in acquiring education. It is only if you want to remain where you are, or one is indolent or lack the capability to move forward, that you can be talking of recognition when the government has not really placed any ban on the level one could aspire to reach. What innovation is the polytechnic currently championing as part of its mandates? The polytechnic is innovative in several areas of technological advancement. Without being immodest, we have a glass unit production that produced from locally made materials, which we have been brandishing and showcasing in many exhibitions. It is called scientific glassware products. We are still carrying out research to commercialise more of our products. In the polytechnic, we have our innovation centre, which we called the Olusegun Obasanjo Innovation Centre. I was once the Director of the centre. Through this centre, we have also come up with products which have been placed side by side imported products and the products are working very well. We produced stabilizers, 200KV and 500KV. We are using our products in most of the departments presently. There was a time when the Board Chairman of the innovation centre, Sir Remi Omotosho, the former Group Managing Director of Odua Conglomerate, an industrialist and entrepreneur to the core, said we should bring products like Binatone, Century and others together with our own products and we put them on for several hours, we discovered that when those other products were hot, our products were still cool. During the period of Professor Rukaya Rufai as Minister of Education, and Mr. Nyesom Wike as the Minister of State for Education, we went to exhibit the products in Abuja, where every stakeholder applauded the polytechnic that such products could come from any of our institutions in the country. So, we have been commercialising the products through the ADOPOLY Ventures. The polytechnic has also come up with many other products. Already, we have set up a Committee to look at the viability of these products to be able to gain more ground and market. We have also contacted the Bank of Industry with the aim of being able to commercialise and mass produce the products as well as getting the market for them. We are also trying to develop a plant at the Olusegun Obasanjo Innovation Centre for mass production of these products. Besides, we also have agricultural products because of the agrarian nature of the polytechnic environment and community, where we produce and fabricate wheel barrows. And, in terms of quality and durability our wheel barrows are better than the ones offered in the market. The polytechnic also has aluminum products, such as aluminum pots produced from our well- established and equipped factory. In fact, we have solar projects, which was contracted when the Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), our neighbour wanted to tap it. One of our engineers went to develop the handling for ABUAD, before they took over from there. We have a lot of advantages and innovations in the polytechnic. We have also developed a product from locally made materials, which we are trying to further develop for commercialization. All these innovations have in one way or the other contributed to the economy and technological advancement of the nation and again generating income to the polytechnic.