Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, has declared the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the replica of the sage, Obafemi Awolowo, who was leader of Yoruba nation till he died in May 1987. Receiving the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, in his palace as part of consultation visits ahead of the general elections, Akanbi described Tinubu as the current symbol of Yoruba, who had built both human and political structure useful for the progress of Nigeria.
The monarch challenged sons and daughters of Yoruba race to support Tinubu’s political association to further move the nation forward, adding that his political status was unprecedented in Yoruba’s 21st Century history. He said: “Tinubu has made many things out of nothing. He built human across board. Human development is his primary asset. Vice president, ministers, governors, CEO of agencies, doctors, lawyers, business magnates, monarchs etc are products of Tinubu to the glory of God today. You don’t become leaders by amassing wealth; best leaders build more and better leaders. There is light on every darkness he touches.”
Akanbi called on the electorate to go out on Saturday and other election dates to exercise their franchise and avoid any form of violence, saying violence won’t do the nation any good. The nationalist monarch, Oluwo of Iwoland, HIM Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has described the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmmed Tinubu (BAT) as an asset to the political, social and economic survival of Nigeria. Oluwo tagged Tinubu as a non tribalistic nationalist committing his resources… In "News" National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday told the governors canvassing for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari that they lacked the constitutional powers of endorsement. Tinubu pointedly told the APC Governors’ Forum, led by Rochas Okorocha, that all candidates interested in the party’s… In "News" Osinbajo, Sambo, Dogara, Kalu, govs honour APC leader President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has raised the bar for several politicians in the country. The President stated this while congratulating Tinubu on the… In "News"