 Following the postponement of the general elections by the Independent Electoral Commissions, the Lagos State government yesterday reviewed the 2018/19 school academic calendar. The government said with the presidential and national assembly election postponed till February 23rd, 2019 and the gubernatorial and state assembly to March 9th, 2019, schools’ resumption had been rescheduled accordingly. The government, in a statement signed by the Director-General, Education Quality Assurance, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, all schools in the state are to resume Monday 18th February, 2019. The statement read: “I have the directive of Her Excellency the Deputy Governor of Lagos State to inform all Lagos State school’s stakeholders and the general public that the state government is compelled by the change in election dates to further review the 2018/19 school academic calendar as stated below:
“All schools resume Monday 18th February, 2019. All schools in Lagos state are expected to close on the following dates: Friday 22nd of February and to resume on Monday 25th. Friday 8th March 2019 and to resume on Monday 11th March, 2019. “All public and private schools, school leaders and school associations should take note and adhere strictly. Kindly give this public announcement wide and urgent publicity.” In the meantime, the Admin Manager, Sajo International School, FESTAC, Lagos, Mrs. Eucharia Nwosu said the whole exercise is a mess, saying that INEC knew the election wasn’t going to be held yet allowed the schools to stay off school activities. She said: “Ministry of Education, acting on behalf INEC instructed us to give the students holidays to ensure that there is no unfortunate incident in the schools. We issued a circular to parents, which stopped the students from coming to school since Wednesday last week, to resume normal activities on Tuesday. “I am confused right now as to what to do. Should I tell the parents to take back their children again after Tuesday? This is just a failure on the side of the government and INEC. This alone will make many people not to vote again.
“Will I still shelve the things I shelved on Saturday (yesterday) for this election? This will affect our school programmes and calendar. Our mid- term test supposed to take effect from Tuesday and ends by Friday; so what do we do? I do not want to keep the students in school. If I insist on keeping them and anything goes wrong, I will be blamed for it. Let’s wait till Tuesday.”
Also, the Head Mistress (HM), Bernville Primary and Secondary School, Funke Agali said extra holidays for the students mean loss of academic days for the school as the school had planned its activities earlier.
“It means that we will be losing some academic days. We have given holidays in anticipation of yesterday’s elections but that didn’t take place. No matter how hard it is, anyway, the students will still go home, as we can’t guarantee their safety. I hope parents will bear with us.
“What we will do is to tinker with our programmes for the term, where necessary. But it is a very big embarrassment that a national election will be postponed this way, on the very day of election, without recourse to the over 190 million people as well as the international observers already in the country. Nigeria is bigger than this. “We have to give another holiday. We gave Thursday, Friday and Monday as holidays for the sake of elections. Of course, we can’t still recall them for Monday. If I had a means of calling the parents to bring their children to school on Monday, I will do it. But it’s impossible for me. Well, we have to do it for our country.”
According to a Public Affair analyst, Charles Ndukwe, the cost of the postponement is high and dire for the country and Nigerians, saying that the INEC has disenfranchised many Nigerians who traveled to their respective based just to vote on technical grounds. He said: “Many of the electorate who had traveled to cast their votes, will feel bad and conclude that there is nothing to vote for again. This will increase election apathy. Many have lodged in hotels waiting to cast their votes and due to the fact that our democracy does not allow anybody to vote where he didn’t register.  “Reasons given by INEC are very flimsy as there is no place in the world where election starts the same time in different polling units across the country. The states where they mentioned logistic problems are not creeks but solid land. They can give us another reason and nothing more.”