Odeaye, a community in Okitipupa, is reputed to have produced many political office holders and business moguls. Despite its exposure to Western culture and education, it still stays glued to its tradition and customs. BABATOPE OKEOWO reports that the people of this community do not eat fowl and python  If the Minister of State for Niger Delta, Prof Claudius Daramola or any prominent indigenes of Odeaye in Okitipupa Local Government Area of Ondo State come to visit you and refused to eat any food or delicacies made with fowl or python, it is because it is forbidden in their home town.  Odeaye, a rustic town in Ondo South Senatorial district has produced many prominent indigenes both in public and private endeavours. Apart from Daramola, the town produced the first deputy governor of the state in this democratic dispensation, Mr Afolabi Iyantan, Commissioners, Special Advisers, Chairmen of Boards and Parastatals, business moguls, among others. It had also produced board members both at state and federal levels.  Odeaye is amongst the prominent nine enclaves of the Ikale people, a town where tradition and cultural values are celebrated and highly respected. The town is situated at the outskirt of Okitipupa Local Government and an opening into the interior of Okitipupa, Igbotako, Ikoya, Ilutitun Towns.  Despite the fact that the Town plays significant roles in the politics of the state, it nonetheless stayed glued to its customs and traditions. One of the customs and tradition is abhorrence of any food made of fowls including eggs and python. Also included in the taboo list are delicacies made from egg including ice-cream and fruit-salad which are by-products.  Historically, it was gathered from oral tradition in the town of about 20,000 people that fowl became deified in Ode-Aye town after the war with a neighbouring town.  Despite the influence of western culture on the societies and globalization, some pre- colonial beliefs and ideologies still subsist especially in suburban towns and villages in the Sunshine State.  These towns include Ibule-Soro in Ifedore Local Government where it is a taboo for albino to enter the town, and Ondo City where they dare not eat bush rat (Okete).  For the people of Ode-Aye, the question of which comes first between egg and hen does not apply to them, as they regard the hen as a tin god, which had helped them in time of need and in order to pay back, they neither eat eggs, hen or any products made of eggs. These include chicken pie, egg roll among others.  Though eating of hen and eggs are forbidden, rearing of these livestocks is a prosperous economic venture in some quarters of the ancient town. These people, according to indigenes, are migrants who have now become adopted indigenes of the town. But to the aborigine, eating of eggs or fowl remains a taboo with dire consequences. Any indigene who violates the taboo risks his or her nose being perforated; vomiting blood, which may eventually lead to the person’s death.  There are however antidotes which must be administered by a traditionalist who would force the victim to lick ashes. This however does not guarantee his or her survival, hence the total ban. It must be noted however that 95 per cent of the people of the ancient town are farmers which justifies their belief in customs and traditions. In fact, they value their culture more than western culture. The Halu of Ode-Aye kingdom, Oba Williams Akinmusayo Akinlade, said eating of hen and python is forbidden to them in appreciation of the roles the duo played during the war at ensuring their victory against enemies.  According to him, the victory in the war could be compared to that of the biblical Israelites when they were about crossing the Red Sea, when God instructed Moses to stretch his rod towards the sea and it parted, thus paving way for the Israelites to cross over.  “That was exactly what our ancestors experienced during the war against our adversaries. When we got to the bank of the River Oluwa, a long python stretched across the river like a bridge for the people to get to the other end.  “Don’t forget that, I told you that our adversaries used to trail us by our footprint. Immediately we crossed over, the enemies followed us but we were far ahead of them. We now followed a path that led to where we are today. When they (the enemies) crossed over, they could not trace us because a mysterious hen appeared and used its legs to erase our footprints, making it impossible to locate us.”  The monarch said after they had crossed the river, they hid inside a cave and watched the hen as it embarked on the rescue mission, thereafter leaving their enemies confused.  Oba Akinlade added that any native of Ode-Aye that defiles the tradition would definitely bear the consequence. He said eating hen and eggs are forbidden even though rearing livestock is a profitable economic venture in some quarters of the ancient Town.