It is just a few days to the general elections and political parties and their candidates are gradually winding down their campaigns. The heat and dust raised by political actors at the campaign rallies may not fully settle before Nigerians will file out to play their own role in this political drama. As many political pundits predicted, the presidential race that began with a motley crowd of candidates has become a two- horse race. On Saturday February 16, it will be a straight contest between the incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), the main opposition party. Who goes home with the coveted trophy, the mandate of the people, will depend on a number of factors. Ideally, an election is a referendum on an incumbent government and the political party that produced it. Election provides the electorate with an opportunity to assess the government of the day based on its promises , policies and programmes. If the verdict is positive, the government is rewarded with a re-election through the ballot and when it is negative, the government is kicked out in the same manner. The Ideal Therefore, if Nigeria were to be that ideal country, the electioneering campaign period would have been a veritable opportunity to assess President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress based the performance of the government in the last four years. Nigerians should by now, be conducting an objective analysis of the policies and programnes of the administration to determine if they were in line with the promises the party made four years ago. It would have been the ideal time to interrogate President Muhammadu Buhari on his three-pronged agenda of Security, Economy and Corruption. In that light, what should determine his re-election or rejection at the polls should be to what extent he had been able to secure Nigeria; how much has he been able to do in terms of reviving the economy and how much he has achieved in reducing the rate of corruption In the country. On Security, for instance, it would have been appropriate to examine the operations of the various security agencies and how well they have delivered on their mandate of securing lives and property of the citizens across Nigeria. Has the government succeeded in curbing the menace of Boko Haram terrorists and insurgents? Were it in some advanced democracies, border security and immigration laws should have been one of the issues on the front burner in this election considering the relationship between our porous borders and the free movement of people, particularly terrorists and bandits into our country. How well did the administration responded to the activities of the herdsmen who unleashed violence on local farming communities in the Middle Belt region and other parts of Nigeria? The performance of the Buhari administration on the economy and fight against corruption should also have been some of the determining factors for this election. Reality However, elections in Nigeria go beyond the performance of an incumbent in office. More often than not, our elections are shaped by primordial sentiments of tribe,tongue and creed. In spite of the earlier moves to keep the 2019 electioneering campaigns on the promises and performances of the candidates, the campaigns have since moved into other terrains that seem to resonate more naturally with the people. A primary issue is the geo-political calculations in the build up to the forthcoming election. Interestingly, the two frontline presidential candidates, Muhammadu Buhari and Atiku Abubakar are not only northerners, they are Muslims of the Fulani ethnic stock. In one breadth, this factor has been an advantage because it has eliminated the tension that usually arises whenever a northerner and a Muslim is pitched against a southern politician who is a Christian. Tribal and religious sentiments had often fuelled political tensions in Nigeria as witnessed in the 2015 election. However, this seeming advantage on the basis of geo-politics in the current election has also made the battle for votes in the North more fierce than ever. This election will be shaped largely by the direction voters in the North West (Buhari’s home base) and North East (Atiku’s home base) choose to go. It is already becoming evident that the votes in these two regions will be split between these two gladiators. A second determinant in this election is the insecurity that has ravaged Nigeria over the last couple of years. In the North Central geo-political zone, the odds appear to be against the APC because of the poor record of the incumbent administration on the insecurity and mindless blood-letting across the zone in the last three and half years. Ethnic minority groups in the larger Middle Belt region comprising Benue, Plateau, Taraba, Adamawa, Nasarawa, Kaduna, Kogi, Kwara and Niger States are still smarting from the wounds inflicted on their psyche by the farmers/herders clashes and the way the present government apparently abandoned them to their fate. They would be having security at the back of their minds when they go to the polls. The feeling is not different in the South- East and South -South geo-political zones. Apart from the complaints of brazen exclusion, subjugation and intimidation by the Buhari administration against these two regions, the people had also been victims of the insecurity in the land. Since 1999, these two regions have been the home of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and this is not about to change as things stand now. The divisive politics of South ern Nigeria and who, between the South West (Yoruba) and South East (Igbo), gets the Presidency in 2023, would also have an impact on the forthcoming general election. Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, a Yoruba from Ogun State is the running mate to President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential of the APC while former Governor of Anambra State, Mr Peter Obi is the running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party. Since the campaign season began the APC had exploited this situation by simultaneously wooing voters from the East and West with the 2023 presidential ticket as a bait. In addition , the efficiency and neutrality of state institutions such as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Nigeria Police, Nigeria Army and other security agencies would be one of the key factors in the forthcoming polls. There have been serious suspicion among Nigerians that these state institutions are likely to play partisan roles during and after the election. The opposition parties and civil society groups have consistently accused the government of the day of plotting to exploit the incumbency factor by using these state institutions negatively to its advantage. This is the greatest fear as the elections draw nearer and it may not be unfounded given the body language of the government and the actions of these institutions n recent times. Perhaps , this is why there has been a growing international pressure on the federal government and these state institutions to maintain neutrality and avoid undue interference in the electoral process. The United States, United Kingdom and European Union have been at the forefront of this diplomatic coalition to help Nigeria midwife a free, fair and credible election. Unfortunately, the efforts of these foreign powers which ordinarily should have helped Nigeria remain on the democratic path to deliver an election devoid of taint, rancour and violence, have been misconstrued as political interference in the ibternal affairs of Nigeria. It is instructive that the All Progressives Congress which embraced the foreign powers with open arms in 2015 when it was in the opposition camp, now regards them as irritants and meddlesome interlopers that must be resisted, crushed and deported in body bags. But after all said and done, the will of the Nigerian people to choose for themselves leaders after their heart, conscience and genuine conviction, would be the greatest factor that would shape the outcome of the 2019 General Elections.