Notwithstanding bleak predictions by some market analysts following growing political tension, the stock market in the last two weeks remained resilience as investors recorded gain of N326 billion in banking stocks. Some market analysts had believed investors should trade cautiously in Emefiele the short to medium term, as sell-offs are likely to persist, amidst the growing political and security tension of the general polls. Checks by New Telegraph revealed that the stocks recorded a gain of N326 billion or 11.94 per cent to close at N3.103 trillion in market capitalisation in the last two weeks of February 2019 (between 1st and 15th February) as against opening figure of N2,777 trillion at the beginning of trading on February 1. Further investigation revealed that activities on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) which opened the trading month at N11.394 trillion in market capitalisation and 30.557.20 in index points at the beginning of trading on February 1, 2019, closed on February 15, 2019 at N12.200 trillion and 32,715.20 index points, hence has earned a gain of about N806 billion or 7.07 per cent. The index fell to 29,336 points last month, its lowest since May 2017, and lost 17.8 per cent last year as uncertainty around the elections and rate rises in the United States triggered fund outflows from Nigeria. Investors, however, have begun to pick up shares to position for a post-election rally, which experts believe could help lift Nigeria’s allshare index to more than 35,000 points this year from around 32,715.20 recorded last Friday. FXTM Research Analyst, Mr. Lukman Otunuga said that Nigerian equities market has repeatedly displayed resilience against both external and domestic risks since the start of 2019. He noted that the combination of bargain hunting and growth optimism are likely to push domestic stocks higher ahead of the presidential elections. Otunuga, who stated this in a report sent to New Telegraph, said investor optimism over government spending boosting domestic growth has continued to support appetite for risk in Nigeria with the All Share Index moving higher. “It has been a positive trading week for the Nigerian stock market with the All Share Index pushing higher despite U.S.-China trade talks, pessimism denting global risk sentiment. “Away from macro fundamentals, the presidential elections will be in sharp focus. Whatever the election outcome, it will have a strong impact on the Nigerian economy. “Confidence over the health of the nation has the potential to receive another welcome boost if next week’s GDP figures for Q4 meet or exceed market expectations. While the outcome of the presidential elections remains highly uncertain, it will certainly have a lasting impact on the Nigerian economy,” he said. Analysts at FSDH Research said they expected some positive performance in February. “We expect savvy investors to take strategic positions in the months leading to expected recovery in second quarter of 2019. Despite the overall decline in January, we have seen pockets of this positioning over the months and expect to see further examples in February. “While the stock market comes with volatilities, investors stand to record significant gains provided they understand the market and have good investment objectives,” they noted. To analysts at Cordros Capital, “With election risk now out of the picture, as we anticipate a peaceful exercise, together with the still supportive macroeconomic picture, we guide investors to cherry pick fundamentally sound stocks in a bid to ride the wave of the market rally, post-polls.”