As the 2019/elections draw closer, former Niger Delta agitators under the aegis of Niger Delta Creek Force, NDCF has joined other groups across the country to clamour for a free and fair Presidential, National Assembly, State Assembly and Governorship Elections. The group in a statement yesterday by General Tonbotibi, General Desert, General Okosisi L, General Lugard and General Emperor Sun,  called on the Federal Government, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC as well as all Political Parties to ensure that there was no rigging in favour of any party against the people’s vote. It said that the Group would not hesitate to resist it. The Niger Delta Creek Force said the call became imperative just as various Groups were calling for a free and fair play in the forthcoming elections. The group added that it would react if the Federal Government, INEC or whosoever, rigs the forthcoming elections in favour of any Political Party against the people’s choice. The group noted that the elections would determine the nearest future of the country and the Niger Delta in particular. They warned that the Federal Government, INEC and all Political Parties should take note and abide by the tenets of Democratic practice and avoid manipulation of votes. They urged the ruling party and other parties to ensure the elections are free and fair, also, the election result should be accepted, adding that whoever is not satisfied should go to court to seek redress. ” The statement read”Niger Delta is the provider of the income base of Nigeria but when our own was rigged out by the present administration, the region did not ferment problem but rather ensured peaceful and harmonious coexistence in the land. “As a flashback, former President Goodluck Jonathan after loosing the presidential elections accepted the outcome of the elections even when it was floored with malpractices for his love of Nigeria. Owing to the above, the group strongly suggests that the key players in the forthcoming elections should sit up and set the stage to accommodate a peaceful, free and fair elections to maintain the existing peace in the country