Dr. Kunle Olajide, an elder statesman and Secretary of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, speaks on the 2019 general elections, endorsements of candidates and votebuying, among others issues  There have been series of endorsements by some political leaders across ethnic divides and socio-cultural groups ahead of the presidential election. What is your take on that? To me, it is people expressing their opinion by coming together to say we support A or we support B. It depends on the way people see it. But as far as I am concerned, they only have control over their own votes because a lot of them can’t even control their household. So, to me, the endorsements do not amount to anything because people go to vote secretly and nobody knows who they vote for and you have no power to sanction anybody who does not vote according to your endorsement. So, to me, it is exercising your fundamental human rights to declare your support for A,B,C or D, which cannot be faulted. But major ethnic socio-political organisations like Afenifere, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Middle Belt Forum (MBF) have endorsed the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar… They are expressing their fundamental human rights, but to what extent can that influence various ethnic groups? It cannot because we have right of freedom of choice, freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. These ethnic organisations don’t have any sanction, so how will they know who voted for who? Even if they know that people within their region voted against their decision, what power of sanction do they have? So, for me, I think it is an exercise in futility. Are you saying that Afenifere’s endorsement will not count? Which of the Afenifere are you talking about? We have two factions; one led by Chief Reuben Fasoranti and the other led by Senator Ayo Fasanmi. The Afenifere led by Fasanmi endorsed Buhari, while the one led by Fasoranti endorsed Atiku. So, what does that amount to? It doesn’t amount to anything. People will vote according to their conscience and there is no way anybody knows who someone votes for. Nobody has power of sanction over anybody who votes against his wish. So, to me, I don’t attach more importance to the endorsement. Why is Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) silent over endorsement of any of the candidates for the presidential election? Because we are not partisan, we are look at the issues as they are. As far as we are concerned, we support the Ibadan Declaration, which makes restructuring a cardinal point in whoever as individuals we are going to support. Then, in our organisation, our members belong to various political parties but the organisation as a body is not partisan. We have looked at the manifestoes of some of the political parties; it is matter of personal opinion because we believe that the restructuring we want is a process; it cannot be by decree and we do appreciate the complexity of the Nigerian state. Nigeria is heterogeneous country; different cultures, different history and different interests. So, no ethnic group can force its interest on the other. As far as we are concerned, we are not declaring support for any candidate. We allow people to look at issues objectively and decide and vote for whoever they think will best meet their aspirations. But some schools of thought believe that Yoruba should support the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which has a Yoruba son, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo as the incumbent vice president and running mate to the APC presidential candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari… My thinking, which is very personal to me and does not belong to YCE, is that Nigeria is not yet a nation. We have not been fortunate to have national leaders, who have taken it upon themselves to commence the process of nation building; in other words, wielding everybody together to put Nigeria first beyond any other thing. So, for me the reality of the president is to think first about where you come from and what you think will be in the interest of your people. That is what you consider, and you look at all the options. We have two leading political parties. When you look at the two parties; already a son of Oduduwa is in the number two position on the national protocol list. We know him already. We know is capability; we know his ability to perform, he has demonstrated that in the last three and half to four years. So, we know him already. If you look at the other political party, we (Yoruba) have been promised Secretary to the Government of Federation, which to the best of my knowledge is about number eight on the protocol list. It is purely an appointment and we don’t know who is going to occupy the position yet; whether he is going to be a competent person. The appointment will be determined by the whims and caprices of the party’s candidate. His choice may not be agreeable to mine. Then it is an appointment and he can be removed within 24 hours but the number two position that we have now is not an appointment. It is part of the ticket. So, when you begin to look at it from that view point, you probably will see the wisdom in some of our people saying a bird in hand is worth thousands in the bush. We already know Osinbajo. We already know he is vice president; we know he is on the APC presidential ticket as running mate to President Buhari. We know Buhari cannot wake up overnight and remove him. When you compare that with another party that is still promising us number eight. They might even decide tomorrow to change and give us number nine. There is nothing we can do after the election. Then we don’t even know who is going to occupy that position for now. So, people are advised to consider the option very well and place their interest above every other consideration. What is your advice to the electorate and politicians ahead of the election? My advice to them is that everybody must go out and perform his civic duties responsibly; no coercion, no harassment, no forcing of anybody to vote one way or the other. Political leaders too should educate their supporters to just ensure that INEC and the security agencies play their roles according to the laws. Then we will wait for announcement of the results and wherever the Nigerian people decide we should go with their votes, we should accept the result in good faith once the process is credible and transparent. Some public office holders and political parties have been making inciting statements ahead of the elections, what is your advice to them? As far as I am concerned, we have laws in Nigeria that should apply to such people no matter how highly placed; nobody is above the law. Anybody who wants to incite violence should be arraigned before the court of law for attempt to cause a bridge of peace and he should be duly sanctioned. What are your expectations on the general elections? My expectation for Nigeria natural; I want the best for this country. I expect politicians to play according to the rules of the game. In other words, they must not encourage violence in any form. The electorate must come out and vote, stay there until the votes are counted and results are announced. I expect the INEC to be impartial and follow to the letter, its guidelines and the Electoral Act. It should ensure that the card readers work and that its officials are trained to be neutral and perform their duties diligently. Security agents must be neutral. They must ensure that all parties to the electoral process; the voters, INEC officials, electorate and observers comply with the rules and letters of the law. They have no duty to intimidate voters. They have no responsibility to harass INEC officials or politicians. Everybody should play the game according to the rules. Vote-buying seems to be the trend; don’t you see being a major determinant of the outcome of the elections? Don’t let us deceive ourselves, voting-buying will persist irrespective of the legislation you make, particularly with our experience in Nigeria that politicians on several occasions have failed the people. They make promises before elections and when they get to office, they don’t even come back home to see the people who voted for them. So, our people do not believe our politicians and because of the depth of poverty we have now, they will device various means to get whatever money they can get from the politicians now because once they are elected into office, they won’t see them again. However, vote-buying is very bad. It is a product of the ignorant of the masses. They do not know the important of their votes; they don’t know that their votes determine the quality of the present and the future they will have. To a large extent, I will say that the political elite in Nigeria across the divides have conspired to impoverish our people so that they can continue to dominate us forever. So, it is for us as a people to begin to put pressure on government to fund education; to make people literate for them to know their right from left and how the use of their votes. If they appreciate the worth of their votes, they will not sell them. It is both the seller and buyer that are guilty.