A 50-year-old a truck driver, Mr. Ilesanmi Balogun has appealed to the philanthropists, public-spirited Nigerians and the general public to help him raise N2.3 million for the corrective surgery of his fractured left limb.
In an interview with the New Telegraph recently, Mr. Ilesanmi Balogun, a native of Oka, Akoko south west in Ondo State, said his broken limb was examined at the Diamond Faith Specialist Hospital, Idiroko, Ota, Ogun State and was advised to deposit N2.3 million for the corrective surgery of the broken leg. The truck driver who lives at No 13 Calculator Street, Off Bayo Blocks, Oju Ore, Sango Otta, Ogun State, said after the close of work on April 14, 2016, he was on his way home when he was knocked down by a hit and run driver along Iyana Iyesi, close to the Winners Chapel in Ogun State.
He was initially rushed to the Diamond Faith Specialist Hospital where Balogun claimed an initial N85,000 on the first night he was admitted there. Two days later, he was told to deposit another N400,000, which his family couldn’t provide. Subsequently, he was discharged. Balogun said ever since the accident occured,he had spent so much money on hospital bill and drugs, but when all the efforts did not yield positive result, he sought care from a traditional bone setter at Igbo Olori in Ota, Ogun State where he spend one year and nine months without any significant improvement, though the fractured leg was under a plaster-of-Paris (POP) throughout the period. According to Balogun, the broken limb became swollen, making it impossible for him to use the legs. “The condition of the leg deteriorated further, leading to swollen and infected leg,” he lamented.
When he failed to get expected result there, Balogun said he sought to be discharged and is now seeking further treatment at the Diamond Faith Specialist Hospital, which has demanded N2.3 million for the surgery.
Balogun said, “Family and friends have contributed; I have spent close to N2 million but I can’t do it alone.” “I am appealing to the general public to please help me raise the sum of N2.3 million. I have sold all I have and I need Nigerians to help me. I want to walk with my legs again so as to cater for my family.”
Balogun urged Nigerians who were willing to assist him to pay into bank account: Balogun Inumidun Mary, 3127134449, First Bank.
Balogun can be reached on contact telephone number: 0816-485-1757. …undergoes surgery Presidency: Yusuf in stable condition   Son of President Muhammadu Buhari, Yusuf, has undergone a head surgery after a bike accident in Abuja. Yusuf sustained head injury and had one of his limbs broken in an accident that took place on Tuesday night in Gwarinpa area of… In "News" One person was confirmed dead on Tuesday in a multiple accident, involving three trucks on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Mr Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the development. He told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abeokuta that the accident… In "Metro and Crime" A baby, Chisimdiri Wilfred Ugoh who has been diagnosed with ‘hole in the heart’ is seeking N6 million to fund a corrective surgery in India. Although, the parents of the baby boy that is two years and ten months, had spent over N2 million and needs the additional N6… In "Health"