In the Federal High Court of Nigeria,Abuja Judicial Division Holden at Abuja.
Judgement delivered Friday, 25th January, 2019 Before His Lordship
Gabriel .O. Kolawole Justice, Court of Appeal Suit No.FHC/AB/CR/85/2009
Between
Federal Republic of Nigeria
And
1. Kenneth Iwueke
2. Okonkwo Ogbu
3. Opayemi Ayoola Facts
Three defendants were charged for a criminal offence at the Federal High Court, Abuja. In the course of trial, the 2nd and 3rd defendants changed their plea from not guilty to guilty, and they were accordingly sentenced.
The trial of the 1st defendant proceeded and was almost concluded, when the trial Judge was elevated to the Court of Appeal, and he took the Oath of Office as a Justice of the Court of Appeal on 22nd June, 2018.
In October 2018, the erstwhile trial Judge was issued a fiat by the President of the Court of Appeal based on the request of the prosecution that Section 396(7) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015 (ACJA) be invoked to allow the Judge to conclude the trial of the 1st defendant.
When the case came up at the Federal High Court, the Judge directed both the prosecution and the counsel for the defendant to address him on the constitutional validity of Section 396(7) of the ACJA. Issue for determination
Whether Section 396(7) of the ACJA which empowers a Judge of the High Court who has been elevated to the Court of Appeal to continue to sit as a High Court judge for the purpose of concluding part-heard criminal matters pending before him at the time of his elevation, is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (“CFRN”). Argument
Counsel for the Prosecution submitted that Section 396(7) of the ACJA was enacted purposefully to remedy the delays caused by the “de novo” phenomenon in part-heard criminal matters, in which the matter starts afresh when a Judge is elevated.
She submitted that rather than the provision being in conflict with the Constitution; it should be seen as amplifying it, especially with regard to the fundamental rights to fair trial within a reasonable time.
She made reference to Section 36(4) of the CFRN which states that “whenever any person is charged with a criminal offence, he shall, unless the charge is withdrawn, be entitled to a fair hearing in public within a reasonable time by a court or tribunal”.
She reiterated that, the provision of the ACJA is to prevent instances where a criminal trial will have to start de-novo after all parties i.e. prosecution, defence and even the court would have expended a lot of time, energy and resources in the criminal process, and when witnesses may not be available to testify at the fresh trial.
Counsel concluded that, there is nothing in the CFRN that bars the operation of Section 396(7) of the ACJA, and that it is, indeed, a novel provision which is a practical demonstration of Section 36(4) of the CFRN.
She urged the court to look at the Constitution as a whole, and construe same, in such a way as not to frustrate the hopes and aspirations of the makers of the Constitution.
On his part, Counsel for the defence agreed that the fundamental essence and indeed, reason for the enactment of Section 396(7) of the ACJA, is for the speedy trial and conclusion of criminal cases.
He however, contended that the Section empowers a judge of the High Court to hear to conclusion a matter which was part-heard.
He posited that, by the elevation of the judge to the Court of Appeal, he is certainly no longer a Judge of the Federal High Court administratively, juristically or judicially speaking.
He submitted that, such a judge becomes functus officio in the matter which he had handled or part–heard, before his elevation.
Counsel contended further that, the Constitution is supreme, and its provision must be respected as the grundnorm and standard, by which other laws, rules etc. are measured.
He relied on the decision of NUHU v OGELE (2003) 18 NWLR (Pt. 852) 251 SC to buttress his argument that the provisions of the Constitution are all embracing in operation and general applications.
He further contended that the courts cannot amend the Constitution or change its words; the courts are duty bound to interpret the Constitution and its laws, and not to amend its provisions or substitute provisions which they consider unwise or improper.
He cited the case of A-G LAGOS STATE v A-G FEDERATION (2003) 8 NWLR (Pt.912).
Finally, counsel for the defendant submitted that, Section 396(7) of the ACJA is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution.
That to hold that the provision of the ACJA is superior to the Constitution is to open a floodgate to unmitigated disaster or anarchy in our jurisprudence. Court’s judgement and rationale
In its determination of the issue, the court referred to Section 253 of the Constitution, which provides that ‘the Federal High Court shall be duly constituted if it consists of at least one Judge of that court.’
The court further referred to the case of MADUKOLU v NKEMDILIM (1962) 2 SCNLR 341, and highlighted the dictum of BAIRAMIAN JSC particularly where His Lordship stated that “a Court is competent when (1) it is properly constituted as regards number and qualifications of the members of the Bench, and no member is disqualified for one reason or another.”
The court then posed the questions whether Justice Kolawole, who has been elevated to the Court of Appeal is a ‘Judge of that court’ (the Federal High Court), and whether the Federal High Court is well constituted in terms of the number and particularly the qualification of Justice Kolawole.
Further, the court considered the provision of Section 252(2) of the Constitution which provides that the National Assembly may by law make provisions conferring upon the Federal High Court powers additional to those conferred by the Section as may appear necessary for enabling the court to exercise its jurisdiction.
The court held that Section 252(2) of the Constitution may provide validation for the enactment of Section 396(7) of the ACJA.
However, such powers of the National Assembly are only exercisable with limitation to the Federal High Court.
His Lordship held further that Section 396(7) of the ACJA over ambitiously extended the powers conferred on the National Assembly to cover the Justices of the Court of Appeal, who by elevation have taken a fresh oath of allegiance and the judicial oath, as prescribed by the Constitution. The National Assembly lacks legislative powers to make a statutory provision such as Section 396(7) ACJA, which seeks to confer additional jurisdiction on a Justice of the Court of Appeal, not covered or within the contemplation of Section 252(2) of the Constitution.
This is more so as a judge of the Federal High Court or Federal Capital Territory or State High Court elevated to the Court of Appeal, has ceased to be a Judge of the said court.
The court observed that, by the entire provisions in Section 396(1) – (7) of the ACJA, the primary goal of the National Assembly was to facilitate quick and speedy administration of criminal justice in Nigeria.
However, this cannot be driven through, unless the extant provisions of the Constitution in relation to the courts created pursuant to Section 6(5)(a)-(k) of the Constitution, are amended to enable a judge appointed pursuant to the Constitution, wear two caps as a Judge of the Federal High Court and of the Court of Appeal.
The court stated that Section 396(7) of the ACJA cannot be married with any specific or even general provisions of the Constitution, as it constituted an unobtrusive distortion of the jurisprudence of the courts created by the Constitution. His Lordship warned further that the National Assembly needs to endeavour to avoid creating more doubts and contentious issues in areas in which the law appears to be well settled; referring to the decision in BRONIK MOTORS LTD v WEMA BANK (1983) 1 SCNLR 296.
Finally the court held that, pursuant to the provisions of Section 1(3) and Section 4(8) which confer on the Court the jurisdiction to declare provisions that are inconsistent with the Constitution void, and the Court’s inability to find any provision of the Constitution under which
Section 396(7) of the ACJA can be accorded refuge (not even under the existing law pursuant to Section 318(1) thereof), the provisions of Section 396(7) of the ACJA having been held to be inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution, is voided, and shall cease to be part of the ACJA which can be applied and enforced by all courts.
Consequently, the court directed that the charge be returned to the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court for re-assignment and commencement de novo, before a Judge of the Federal High Court. Counsel:
Mrs. Constance C. Mgbejiofor for the Prosecution A. Uno Kanu, Esq for the defendant.
Reported by Optimum Publishers Limited
(Publishers of Nigerian Monthly Law Reports (NMLR)).