The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has blamed the fire incidents at its state offices as well as operational challenges for yesterday’s postponement of the 2019 general elections.  The Commission said it attempted to confront the challenges, especially with regard to materials affected by fire incidents in Abia, Plateau and Anambra states, but its inability to deliver materials to some locations on time due to bad weather, was the major setback. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a meeting with key stakeholders in Abuja, admitted that there were delays in delivering ballot papers and result    sheets for the elections.  “For instance, three days ago, we were unable to deliver materials to some locations due to bad weather. “We therefore had to rely on slow-moving long haulage vehicles to locations that can be serviced by air in spite of the fact that we created five zonal airport hubs – Abuja (North Central), Port Harcourt (South South and South East), Kano (North West), Maiduguri and Yale (North East) and Lagos (South West), to facilitate the delivery of electoral logistics,” the INEC Chairman explained.  He stated that faced with these challenges, the commission had toyed with the idea of shifting the election to Sunday, February 17 (since it was confident that the problems would be resolved within 24 hours), but expressed the fears that the restriction of movement during elections, could affect many voters who worship on Sunday.  “While the commission was considering the following Monday, 18th February 2019 as an option, our lCT Department advised us that it would require five to six days to reconfigure about 180,000 Smart Card Readers earlier programmed to work only on election day Saturday 16th February 20l9.  “It is for this reason that the commission decided to adjust the election dates to Saturday 23rd February 2019 for presidential and National Assembly elections and a consequential adjustment of governorship, state Assembly and FCT Area Council elections to Saturday 9th March 2019,” Prof. Yakubu further informed. He disclosed that some sensitive materials, which were already distributed, have been retrieved and would be taken back to custody of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and assured of proper audit to account for all materials.  He added that the commission would deploy sensitive materials on Wednesday while other materials would be sent to Local Government Areas Thursday.  The commission will give refresher training for ad hoc staff who will conduct the elections that same Thursday while personnel will be deployed to Registration Area Councils (RACs) on Friday, preparatory to the conduct of the elections on Saturday. “I want to appeal to Nigerians and all other stakeholders for their understanding in what has been a very difficult decision for the commission. But we believe that ultimately this is for the good  of our democracy and country.  I wish to assure you of our commitment to free, fair and credible elections. “As Chairman of INEC, and on behalf of the Commission, we take full responsibility for what happened and we regret any inconvenience our decision might have caused,” Prof. Yakubu stated. But independent sources, who spoke with Sunday Telegraph on Saturday, said the real reason for the shift was because ballot papers meant for the senatorial elections did not arrive on schedule.  “It was at the point of unbundling the ballot papers to be airlifted to the various INEC state headquarters that they got to know that the papers were not included in the delivery which the commission took few days to the polls,” volunteered a security agent, who did not want his name in print, due to the sensitivity of the issue. Speaking in the same vein, an insider at INEC, confided in the weekly that the Commission was yet to receive some sensitive materials.  “As I am talking with you, some sensitive materials were yet to be delivered,” our source said. Also, our source laid the cup of blame at the door of politicians. He said the Commission was being careful in printing the materials in Nigeria, as they could print their own.