 …as NCAA seeks accident-free 2019   Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Muhtar Usman, said Nigeria was not in danger of not passing the United States Transportation Security Administration (TSA) assessment of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. He maintained that the exercise would also help the country to close all open items in the system and further improve safety. A three-man United States Transportation Security Administration (TSA) team arrived the country last week to commence a routine audit of Lagos airport. Speaking to New Telegraph in his office at the weekend, Usman expressed optimism that Nigeria would once again scale the hurdle of the administration, stressing that the duty of TSA was to assess any country that its airline operates into. At the moment, only Delta Air operates direct flight operations between Nigeria and US, while no Nigerian carrier operates into the country. Before now, Delta and United Airways operated into Nigeria from Atlanta and Houston Texas respectively. But United stopped services to Lagos in the heat of recession that Nigeria went through three years ago. “They (TSA) normally go out and assess all other airports outside the US that have direct air link to US. So, it is a normal process. This is not the first time; we do it once or twice a year. It also helps us to check our own level of preparedness on security and also ensures we meet international standards. “Almost all the time when they come, they are always satisfied and we believe that even this time around, they will be satisfied. We will be open to observations from them and where we need to improve, we will certainly implement their safety recommendations. As you know, aviation securities are dynamic; we also have to be proactive to make sure we meet current and the future challenges,” he said. He also expressed confidence that Nigeria would scale the forthcoming International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) audit, which will take place this year. On the zero accident rates to commercial jet in almost six years in Nigeria, Usman attributed this to the cooperation of operating airlines, service providers, stakeholders and other players in the system, who ensured that safety procedures are strictly adhered to. He added that NCAA hoped to consolidate and surpass these current achievements in the New Year, stressing that the aim of the regulatory agency was to ensure reduction in the number of incidents in the industry in 2019. Over the last 14 years, air transport has become one of the safest modes of transport in Nigeria. The good air safety record in Nigeria is majorly down to the help of IATA to map out strategies to secure her airspace and curb series of accidents that bedevilled the aviation sector. It was also due to enormous work of the aviation regulatory body in its oversight functions. The major drive to end air crashes in Nigeria was ignited by the tragic accidents of 2005 and 2006 when the country and the world became fixated by avoidable bloodletting in the air, which many wished would never happen again. The desire to correct these anomalies prompted the IATA to pick interest in Nigeria. But there is something in Nigeria that may only be found in few African countries. Nigeria has a population of compulsive travellers. It has the record of the highest number of indigenous travellers, which is a rarity in the continent. Although less than one per cent of Nigerians travel by air, the country’s passenger traffic in 2017 rose to little 15 million, and there are indications that this could double in no distant time, as the economy improves and enhances the citizens’ purchasing power. So there was need to end the frequent accidents in the country. As a veritable market, the mega carriers from Europe, Middle East and recently from the US could not stay away from Nigeria despite its unsafe airspace then. On its inability to name the names of airlines sanctioned recently by the regulatory agency, Usman said that the objective of the agency was not to hurt any operator, but to ensure compliance with the civil aviation regulations. He added: “As I said again, the essence is not to bring down anybody. Fist Nation at a time was a regular air operators’ certificate holder doing scheduled flight, and at a time, Nigerians were asking where they were and why they were being downgraded. First of all, they know the requirement to operating scheduled service, but as a safety measure, we allowed them to operate provided they remained safe.”