The book publishing industry has continued to battle with operational challenges, making Academy Press to sustain its loss position, writes Chris Ugwu  There is strong assumption that more than two-thirds of book industry revenue goes to pirates, which has affected the growth of the industry, hampered its ability to generate additional employment opportunities for the growing youth population and limited its contribution to the growth of the Nigeria economy.
Besides, the cost of funds is still very high and this is a serious headache for companies in Nigeria. As a matter of fact, some companies are unable to pay dividends to shareholders because the greater percentage of what they should have declared as profits is used to pay interest on credit facilities they obtained from the commercial banks.
Currently, the marketing environment has continued to be more turbulent in Nigeria especially the manufacturing sector due largely to the effect of international oil price fluctuations and yet to be resolved infrastructural challenges, multiple taxation and high cost of operation arising from adverse fiscal and monetary policy, inflation and high cost of funds.
Again, the security landscape remained a major concern particularly in the North Eastern part of the country and lately rampaging herdmen making free enterprise increasingly complicated in the affected states.
Market watchers also believe that for book publishing industry to survive, more is needed to be done in order to totally curb the problem of counterfeiting. Individual companies must also be able to come up with technological innovations that will help counter the activities of counterfeiters.
Following the challenging macro-environment and the squeeze on household wallets, growth of the sector has been constrained, with more growth seen in the illegal activities.
The financial results of most of the companies in the sector have not been encouraging and the expectation that the subsequent results will be brighter enough to erase the negatives has remained an illusion, as the trend of loss position has continued unabated.
The harsh operating environment has made the Academy Press Plc like its peers unable to weather the storm despite innovative and proactive responses to market dynamics and competitive pressures. This has made the company to maintain loss position in earnings.
Market watchers attributed the depletion in revenue to stiff competition, rising wave of piracy and forex challenges.
The company has remained susceptible to the challenges facing the manufacturing businesses in Nigeria due to the upset in financial sector following fluctuation in oil prices and currency devaluation.
Following the current downturn being witnessed in the market, the firm’s share price, which stood at 50 kobo in March 31, 2018 has dropped marginally by 9 kobo to close at 41 kobo at the close of business last Friday. Company profile
Academy Press Plc was incorporated in Nigeria as a private limited liability company on 28th July, 1964 and by a special resolution, became a public limited liability company on 22nd October, 1991. The company offered its shares to the public in November 1994 and these shares were listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on 15th June, 1995.
The group carries on its business as printers of educational and general books as well as commercial printing of diaries, labels, calendars, periodicals, annual reports, confidential and other printing. Financials
Academy Press Plc closed the full year ended March 31, 2017 in a loss position as the challenges of operating environment took toll on the earnings.
According to a notice to the NSE, the company posted the loss after tax of N512.725 million as against loss of N67.323 million during the comparable period of 2016.
The group’s loss before tax stood at N125.266 million as against profit before tax of N26,187 million in 2016.
However, the company’s revenue rose by 3.42 per cent to N2.117 billion during the review period from N2.047 billion posted a year earlier.
Results for the first quarter ended June 2018 show that revenue dipped from N606 million in 2017 to N457 million in 2018. Loss before tax stood at N91 million in 2018, as against N4.2 million in 2017.
Also, results for the half year ended September 30, 2018 show that revenue dipped from N1.2 billion in 2017 to N1.1 billion in 2018. The firm made a loss before tax of N85.1 million in 2018, as against a loss before tax of N4.3 million recorded in 2017.
Academy Press Plc closed the third quarter ended December 31, 2018 in a loss position as the challenges of operating environment took toll on the earnings.
According to a notice to the local bourse, the company posted the loss after tax of N178.696 million as against loss of N121.984 million during the comparable period of 2017, representing percentage change of 246.
However, the company’s revenue declined by 6 per cent to N1.488 billion during the review period from N1.582 billion posted a year earlier.
Cost of sales stood at N1.158 billion in 2018 from N1.130 billion in 2017, while administrative expenses stood at N348.851 million from N370.414 a year earlier. Profit deflators
Speaking at the 53rd Annual General Meeting (AGM), Chief Simeon Oguntimehin, chairman of the company said the Nigerian economy was negatively impacted due to the loss of revenue and scarce forex from its economic mainstay – oil.
“This created currency crisis that resulted in both official and unofficial significant devaluation of its currency,” he said. “The economy contracted and resulted in slow down in the market and business of the productive sector. There was relative improvement in the management of insurgency and terrorism due to government agencies’ efforts but the security situation is still not satisfactory, as kidnapping and other vices continue to prevail.”
Oguntimehin noted that the Printing and publishing sector was seriously affected by the currency and security crises and experienced business downturns as a result.
Besides, he observed that the scarcity of forex and loss of naira value made availability of raw materials problematic and costly, thereby reducing the potential of the general market.
“The need for the policy makers to create enabling environment that would prompt establishment of local printing input materials such as Paper Mills, Ink and other Chemicals production in furtherance of raw materials domestication and input substitution cannot be over- emphasized,” he said.
“The Board adopted several mitigating measures to improve and diversify the market including creating local substitute for some of these material inputs and equipment. The market response was however, very slow in view of the larger economic contraction.
“The company and its subsidiaries suffered lack of growth in revenue, high cost of production and huge borrowing cost and forex loss. The challenges of the larger Nigerian economy on the industry has taken a toll on the business fortune of the company; hence the current negative performance.”
He had explained that importation has made both the huge capacity and skill labour that exists in the country idle.
“The operating import tariff regime, which made importation to be more economically viable for print product buyers to the detriment of local printers has been responsible for this. We therefore wish to commend government on its recent pronouncement on measures to encourage industrialisation and job creation by amending tariffs that have constituted barriers to these objectives and hope the steps would be sustained to the benefit of the printing industry.”
Oguntimehin noted that the country does not need to import printing products, as a nation because local printers can do it.
“We do not need as a nation, to import any of our print products such as books, magazines, annual report, calendars, diaries, fliers, bank forms, flow lines, tickets, vouchers and all other sensitive materials including elections papers, revenue agencies forms, bank forms and other security agency document needs,” he said. Future outlook
Oguntimehin said with the positive prognosis in the Nigeria economy aftermath of the end of the recession, the performance in business activities is expected to improve.
“The company has been prepared and will consolidate on its leadership position strength to service the print industry to its full potentials and achieve recovery in a short while,” he said.
“Areas of low activities in the operation especially those already taken over by modern Computer Technology will be further pruned down or collapsed for commensurate efficiency. The foray of the company into full light packaging production, which is the future of printing is also being consolidated. The current financial year has been promising so far and we are hopeful of a return to profitability in due course.” Last line
The intellectual property space is dominated by pervasive piracy and has been for a very long time. It is however, necessary for the governments at all levels to come up with workable policies to arrest the ugly situation for the overall growth of the industry.