 The attendance at the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN}, was tumultuous on February 10, just six days to the presidential and National Assembly elections. While the fear in the land had reached breaking point, the congregants were eager to hear prophetic words and direction concerning the impending battle between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). Like a father, who is concerned by the anxiety of his children, Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua, took pity on the people, he had earlier refused to make categorical statement on the elections. But seeing the fear in the land, he gave a message of hope with a warning about the polls. He said: “I want to tell you that no matter the situation; be calm. God is in control. Those who will cause trouble will see trouble and those who will cause peace will see peace.” Speaking figuratively, Joshua predicted that the aftermath of the elections may “look very fearful.” “You will see the clouds so dark as if it’s about to rain – but suddenly the dark cloud disappears,” but Nigerians will have greater cause to respect God after the elections, he added.
He continued: “If anything happens to this country called Nigeria that is the end of Africa, “adding that “Nigeria has a very strong bond with God.”
“If the people of Nigeria want to cause trouble, they will cause trouble for themselves but the nation Nigeria will stand,” he reiterated. The previous Sunday the man of God had similarly encouraged the congregants to take their focus away from the prevailing situations around them but rather give more thought to their salvation and focus more on God the Redeemer.
“There is something giving me concern. You are talking about the situation instead of talking about the Redeemer. Especially my country; we are going into elections in few days.
“They are talking about it. Situations are meant to improve you,” he counseled; adding: “Instead of talking about situations talk about your redeemer.” T.B Joshua went into scriptural lane to buttress his point citing the book of John 16:33: “I have told you these things so that in me you will have peace in me. In this world you will have tribulation. Take heart for l have overcome. So then pray that your faith will not fail. “There will always be an issue that will challenge your faith. A true Christian will be tested. From that verse it shows that we are not in heaven. Something must test your faith. This is the beauty of our journey to internal life, beauty of our life in Christ Jesus,” Joshua counseled.
He insisted that maintaining one’s salvation is more important than the worries adding that, salvation emanates from God and God is able to maintain His precious gift to humanity.
“Don’t forget Jesus does not maintain what he does not form. We misjudge ourselves when we are in such circumstances and failure.
“We begin to look at Jesus in bad light, when we are facing trials and temptation. A man can be poor, can be in sickness of body and still be a candidate of heaven. We cannot separate warfare from salvation. True salvation will put us into direct conflict with Satan.
“A true Christian is tested by his ability to face circumstances and situations. Are you a Christmas and little circumstances situation you run from pillar to post, one church to another and yet you are still looking for Jesus? It is impossible to worship God without challenges. This is season of challenges, the years of challenges. You talk more if challenges rather talk more if your Redeemer.” Concluding, he said: “We are going to election in two to three weeks. We are standing in gap praying for the nation.”