Hon. Peter Akulega, is the Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State. He speaks with PHILIP NYAM on the chances of his party in the March 9, gubernatorial election in the state  There have been media reports that the people of Benue have vowed to vote against President Muhammadu Buhari for alleged poor handling of the killings by herdsmen in the state. What are the chances of the APC in the presidential election?  I don’t think Benue people have taken that decision. The killings had been going on before President Buhari came into power. From 2011 we have witnessed these killings. So, for anybody to pass the whole buck to President Buhari is not being fair to him. And for anybody to say that Benue people have taken a decision not to vote Buhari that too is not true. We’re in touch with the people and we have explained to them the circumstances of the killings. They have predated President coming to power. Most of them have agreed with us that these things have been there since the time of President Jonathan till date. So, I think that is the narrative from the opposition. We have done our campaigns and people have agreed with us that they are going to vote President Buhari to power looking at what he has done so far.   The people have argued that the President did not do much to assuage the nerves of the victims of the killings…  You know, we are in a political period. We have our party and we have opposition. And I think that issue is coming from the other party. It is not the decision of Benue people. When the killings happened, the President came here. He did. He actually came and the stoppage is as a result of his efforts. If he had not deployed soldiers definitely the killings would have continued. So, we have agreed that he has done something at the end of the day to avoid the continuous killings.   The PDP candidate, Governor Samuel Ortom seems to be getting more sympathy from the people because of the Anti-open Grazing Act, which he signed. Don’t you think the APC will lose the governorship election woefully?   First of all, it was APC that gave him the ticket. And the state Assembly was being controlled by the APC, and the law too was sponsored by the Benue people, and the House which was predominantly APC made sure that the law was passed. The only thing that the governor did was to assent to it. So, for anybody to claim that the governor enacted the law I think that person is not being fair to Benue people. Actually the Benue people made the law. Two, the state Assembly was controlled by APC. So we can equally say that the APC that made the law and not the governor. The governor only signed the law. The governor should not claim ownership of that law. He signed that law when he was governor on the platform of the APC, so is an APC law.  But some of the stakeholders believe that the March 9, gubernatorial election will be a walk over for the PDP.  This is a very simple election. This is a governor that since three and half years now there is nothing in the state that he can pinpoint that he has done for Benue people. And then for the governor himself, looking at his performance, it was because of underperformance that we made him to leave the party. After we talked to him in-house several times that people are complaining, let him do one or two things that we will go out for his campaigns but he couldn’t listen to us. That was the genesis of how he left the party. That is the truth. Assuming the governor performed well we would have issues to start with. But with his underperformance I think we are going to have an easy election in the state. Governor Ortom has claimed that his inability to pay salaries was owing to interference from APC leaders. And since he left for the PDP, he’s been paying; don’t you think this will work in his favour?  Well, I think that is a flimsy excuse. Before you become a governor, or contest for an elective post, you should have what you want to do for the people. Besides, that you have a godfather, you should know what you want to do for the people. And even the issue of godfather is a general issue. Other states too have godfathers, why are the governors there performing? Why is his case different? What about other projects? Why is he not performing in other areas? I disagree with him in pushing the blame to the godfathers. Because when he was there we were telling him that people are complaining that he should do one or two things but he couldn’t. Until we gave him the red card and asked him to leave before he started talking about godfathers. He would have told the party that the godfather is the one preventing him from doing projects and we would have confronted the godfather. But he didn’t tell us anything like that. Is it now that he is aware that the godfather prevented him from doing those things? So, they are just flimsy excuses. But because he knows that election is around the corner, he has to change the narrative so that at least he’d have something to say.   So, what is the APC candidate, Hon. Emmanuel Jime bringing to the table? Our candidate is talking about agriculture. You know Benue State is an agrarian state and is a predominantly farming community. So, agriculture is one of the key agenda. The second is talking about the security of the state, and education. That he’d upgrade the standard of education of the Benue people. Those are the three key points our candidate has put on the table.  There were also stories that some Benue people also contributed to the killings in the state. What is your take on this? Even some of us in Benue State felt that there is internal complicity in the government because, we had one Tashaku who was brought in by Governor Ortom. And that Tashaku is said to have a hand in the killings and everybody knows that. So, if there is any statement or stories like that, the people may be referring to Tashaku that was brought in by Governor Ortom himself. He was warned not to keep that man (Tashaku) in government as a special aide but he kept that man until these atrocities came up. So, the governor should be held responsible for that reason.  Apart from the PDP, some of the new parties like the PRP seem to be making waves in the state; a lot of the people are following them. Won’t this affect the chances of APC? Let me make it clear that we don’t have PRP on ground in Benue State. That is the truth. And apart from APC and PDP I don’t see other parties on ground in Benue State. So, if the governor is telling you that is only problem…. And we learnt that he is sponsoring somebody in PRP, just trying to buy support from people. If he is sure that APC is not a problem to him then no problem, we are going to the field. But I know that we have just two political parties in the state. We have APC and PDP, that’s the truth.  Some analysts have argued that Governor Ortom has performed in other areas; that his only problem is non-payment of salaries… You are here in the state yourself. Please, try and go out. Let them show you the 10 or five kilometre that he has constructed. This is practical now. You can go out and do that by yourself. Then talking about renovation, you can still go to the School of Nursing he’s claiming that he has renovated. Three and half years now that school is still under renovation. You can go and see yourself. These things are practical! If I am lying you tell the public, if I am saying the truth you tell the public. Then the issue of roads, I want you to go out find an independent somebody to take you to any local government or even in the state where he has constructed any road whatever then you’d confirm my position. 