At least two people were killed during a violent clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ojoku, Oyun local government area of Kwara state. The police have also confirmed the arrest of six suspects over the incident which occurred on Monday evening among followers of Architect Lola Ashiru, APC senatorial candidate for Kwara south and his counterpart from the PDP, Senator Rafifu Ibrahim. Although both parties exchanged blames over the incident, a statement by the state police command said the attack was against Ashiru who was on a campaign train to Ojoku, the hometown of his arch-rival, Ibrahim. The statement said the command was on the trail of other suspects believed to have participated in the crime and reminded political party leaders in the state of the need to adhere by the terms of the peace pact they recently signed with respect to peaceful political campaigns in the state. The statement by police spokesman for Kwara command, Ajayi Okasanmi reads: “The Command received with astonishment the reported attack unleashed on Arch Lola Ashiru, the APC Senatorial candidate for Kwara South and his campaign train in Ojoku, Oyun Local government area of Kwara State yesterday 19/2/2019 in the evening. “Immediately the report was received, the Commissioner of Police Kwara State, CP Kayode Egbetokun dispatched to the scene of the attack at Ojoku a team of policemen, led by the DPO Ilemona and the squadron commander 68 PMF, Offa. “The teams successfully brought the situation under control, rescued the candidate unhurt and arrested suspects who were actively involved in the attack. Manhunt for the remaining fleeing suspects had since begun, while discreet investigation of the incident is ongoing. “For the umpteenth time, the Command is restating its commitment to the safety of lives and property of the people of Kwara State. While warning sternly that act of hooliganism, thuggery, unlawful possession of firearms and other dangerous weapons will be met with superior forces and suspects arrested will be made to face the full wrath of the law. “The Command is appealing to the victims of this attack and their sympathizers not to resort to self-help but to have confidence in the Command to do the needful and ensure that culprits are brought to justice.” However, in its own version, the PDP claimed that its candidate was the object of the attack which both parties narrated occurred while Ashiru was coming out of the palace of the traditional ruler of Ojoku. It was gathered that the exchange of the political slogans, ‘O To Ge’ for APC and ‘O Tun Ya’, for PDP led to the mayhem during which dangerous weapons were used. The PDP listed some of its members allegedly shot during the fracas to include ‘Dondo, PDP Youth Leader, Agbade, Sheriff, Sai Toyin, Kaba,Akanmu, Tunde Kolokolo and Ibrahim Ojoku ‘. In a statement by its State Chairman, Alhaji  Kola Shittu, the PDP claimed that the incident was part of ‘the plot by the APC to throw Kwara into chaos and bloodletting so that INEC can shift election and later conduct a staggered election in the State’ adding that ‘ It is unfortunate that while the PDP is preparing for the elections, the APC is busy orchestrating plots to unleash violence on our candidates and members in order to achieve its aim of having a staggered election in Kwara.’ Meanwhile, the state chairman of APC, Hon Bashir Bolarinwa has asked the police to arrest Senator Ibrahim, alleging that the legislator was the brain behind the attack. Bolarinwa, who addressed newsmen in Ilorin, the state capital,   Bolarinwa lamented that the attackers outnumbered the policemen on the campaign train, forcing the APC candidate to hide for over two hours. His words: “the attackers, who were armed with different weapons, started shooting at the APC members and supporters who accompanied our candidate to the palace. The policemen who accompanied our candidate’s campaign train tried to repel the attackers, but they were massively overwhelmed. Our candidate, Architect Lola Ashiru, was quickly taken away from the place and he remained in hiding for over two hours before police reinforcement came to rescue him. “We are reliably informed that the attack was allegedly coordinated by the PDP Candidate for the Kwara South Senatorial District, Senator Rafiu Ibrahim, who hailed from the same place (Ojoku) where our members and supporters were attacked. “We are using this occasion to call on the security agencies to immediately arrest all the perpetrators of yesterday’s violence at Ojoku and bring them to justice. In particular, we demand the immediate arrest and prosecution of the alleged coordinator of the violence, Senator Rafiu Ibrahim. “We are also reiterating our earlier call on the security agencies to immediately arrest all known thugs and other criminals across our state so that they will not disrupt Saturday’s elections and the subsequent ones. We need to rid Kwara of all thugs and hoodlums in order to encourage the good people of the state to come out in large numbers to exercise their franchise on Saturday, and also to provide a level playing field for all the parties.” A total of 54 people, among them the Assistant Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Femi Yusuf, have been arrested by the Kwara state police command for alleged involvement in electoral offences and for protesting the outcome of the just concluded local government election in the state.  … In "Politics" Against recent attacks on politicians and at political rallies, BIYI ADEGOROYE in this analysis, explains the need for caution ahead of the elections   ‘‘I appeal to politicians not to set the nation on fire because of their personal ambition at the expense of national interest. People who don’t have… In "Politics" …PDP, APC trade blames   Hoodlums suspected to be political thugs yesterday descended on Agbaji, the family home of Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, in Ilorin, Kwara State. At the end of the invasion, which lasted several hours, about 15 people were left with various degrees of injury while about… In "Metro and Crime"