A Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Jos on Thursday sentenced a 22-year-old labourer, Nasiru Abubakar, to 18 months’ imprisonment for stealing a motorcycle and impersonating an army man. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs Roseline Baraje, convicted Abubakar on a two-count charge of stealing and impersonation after he pleaded guilty to the charge. Baraje sentenced Abubakar to one year imprisonment for stealing and six months’ imprisonment for impersonation. The magistrate, however, held that the sentences should run concurrently. She gave the convict an option of N10, 000 fine for each  sentence. Baraje hoped that the sentence would serve as a deterrent to others. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Sgt.Tawel Ijuptil, told the court that the convict stole the motorcycle from Mr Hudu Salisu of Kihang Village, Jos, on Jan. 31. He said that Abubakar stole the motorcycle from where it was parked. “He was caught with the motorcycle while wearing a military camouflage cap and, on thorough investigation, the police discovered he stole the motorcycle, ‘’ Ijuptil submitted. The prosecutor noted that the offences contravened Sections 288 and 132 of the Penal Code, Law of Plateau. (NAN) A Jos Chief Magistrates’ Court, on Thursday, sentenced a 29-year-old businessman, Christopher Bala to eight months in imprisonment for stealing. The magistrate, Mrs Roseline Baraje, found the convict guilty of a two-count charge of theft and breach of trust. After a summary trial of the accused who pleaded guilty of… In "Metro and Crime" A Chief Magistrates’ Court in Kaduna on Wednesday sentenced a 27-year-old man, Yusuf Musa, to eight months in prison for stealing a motorcycle. The Magistrate, Mr Ibrahim Sidi, pronounced the verdict after the convict pleaded guilty to a one-count charge of theft. Sidi, who sentenced Musa without an option of… In "Metro and Crime" A Karmo Grade 1 Area Court, Abuja, on Friday sentenced a 34-year-old ex-convict, Friday Glory, to eighteen months imprisonment for being in possession of a stolen motorcycle. The convict, of no fixed address, was convicted on a two-count charge of possessing property reasonable suspected to be stolen and for being… In "Metro and Crime"