Former governorship candidate of National Conscience Party (NCP) in Ogun State, Ogbeni Lanre Banjo, has commended Nigerians in general for their resilience and particularly those brave men and women who responded to the threat of the snatched ballot boxes, those who caustically vocal the INEC lapses that prevented them from voting and insisted on voting in last Saturday elections.
Banjo, an All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, in statement made available to New Telegraph also commended the media for discharging their duties without fear and favor and for keeping everyone on his/her toes.
He equally commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for “listening to people complaints and solutions offered in the past on overt vote buying, provision of voting booths, the cancellation of accreditation first and the requirement to vote later.”
His words: “Special gratitude to the INEC Chairman for not treating Nigerians with disdain by his daily briefing. I commend Nigerians who in the past dissected our electoral processes, confrontationally denounced certain INEC procedures and offered solutions. Without all of us denouncing procedures and making suggestions, we will continue to be the laughing stock of the world. I also sympathised with the family members of those who lost their lives in this process. It is very sad indeed!
“However, until we conduct elections without incident of late materials despite postponement, misleading voters register and loss of a single life, Nigeria would not be respected by the civilized world. It is in this regard that I appeal to INEC to work with the security agencies to improve on late materials and voting delay in polling units and providing adequate security at the polling unit.
“INEC must evaluate the basis for late delivery of materials to the polling units and if ineptitude or sabotages are detected, those responsible must be removed to set the tone that such a misdeed is frowned at. This has been going on since 1999, and it must stop.”