Acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has re-echoed President Muhammadu Buhari’s threat that anyone who snatches ballot box during Saturday’s poll will meet grave consequences. The Police boss who briefed State House Correspondents after a security meeting with President Buhari, said his men will not fold their hands and allow thugs to disrupt the rescheduled elections across the country. Buhari had, at the national caucus meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held at the party secretariat in Abuja on Monday, said he had ordered security agents to deal ruthlessly with anyone who snatches ballot boxes or attempts to undermine the integrity of the polls even at the cost of his own life. According to the President, any politician portraying himself to be popular in his domain and hoping to exploit such popularity to hire thugs to snatch ballot boxes during the elections will do so at the expense of his own life. Buhari’s comment has, however, received wide condemnation from stakeholders who have reminded him that the punishment for ballot box snatching is imprisonment for a period of time and not instant death as being threatened.
Speaking on the development, the IGP said Police won’t tolerate electoral malpractices. He said: “Every Nigerian should come out on the election day and cast their vote without any fear of molestation. “The security personnel are ready and prepared to protect everybody. Anybody that feels that he can come out and disrupt process should have a rethink because that situation will not be allowed. If you plan and allow yourself to be used as touts, whatever happens to you, you will take it.
“Ballot snatching, ballot buying, thuggery will never be allowed, anybody that is planning to snatch ballot boxes or planning to be used as a tout, will have his or herself to blame on the Election Day. So, you better don’t allow yourself to be used.” The IGP explained that heads of the security agencies during the meeting with President Buhari deliberated on the consequences and came up with the resolve to further provide adequate security within the country so that the electorate will come out and cast their votes without any fear of molestation. The security chiefs, who were earlier joined by governors of Kaduna, Adamawa and Borno State, continued the meeting after the trio left. The President has ordered security operatives to “deal ruthlessly” with anyone who attempts to snatch ballot box during the rescheduled general elections next Saturday, February 23, 2019. President Muhammadu Buhari made this declaration while addressing a meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caucus in Abuja before the discussions went… In "News" The Presidency has accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of being jittery following the directive by President Muhammadu Buhari to the military and other security agencies to deal ruthlessly with ballot snatchers during the forthcoming general elections. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, yesterday… In "News" Former Lagos State governor and national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday, declared that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has the constitutional powers to cancel and postpone elections. Tinubu also said that the nation's constitution stipulated that campaigns for elections should end 24 hours… In "News"