Justice Adedayo Akintoye of a Lagos High Court has ordered the arrest of a former Super Eagles star, Austin Okocha, over his failure to appear in court to answer to charges of income tax evasion. Okocha was dragged before the court by the Lagos State Ministry of Justice on a three-count charge bordering on failure to furnish return of income. The prosecutor, Dr. Jide Martins, had on June 6, 2017 filed the charge and the case came up for hearing on October 5, 2017 but the defendant did not appear in court. However, after several adjournments without the defendant appearing in court, the prosecutor urged the court to issue a bench warrant. The judge consequently issued a bench warrant on January 29, 2019 for the arrest of the former Super Eagles skipper but the prosecutors did not produce the defendant on February 19 despite the order. However, Akintoye adjourned the case until April 15 for the execution of the bench warrant and further hearing. Earlier, the prosecutor told the court that the defendant had failed to furnish return of income for tax purposes to the Lagos State Internal Revenue Services. Justice Chuka Obiozor of a Federal High Court in Lagos has ordered the arrest of a former Governor of Enugu State, Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani, owing to his failure to show up in court yesterday for his arraignment over alleged N4.5 billion fraud. The judge also ordered the arrest of Nnamani's… In "News" Justice Chuka Obiozor of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday affirmed the arrest warrant issued against a former Governor of Enugu State, Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani, owing to his failure to show up in court to answer to a N4.5 billion fraud charge slammed on him and one of his… In "News" Justice Modupe Nicol-Clay of a Lagos High Court in Igbosere has ordered the remand of a lawyer, Chidi Uzoije Amadi, who allegedly jumped bail, after his arraignment in 2016 for obtaining N4.5 million by false pretence in prison. The order followed Amadi’s re-arrest and re-arraignment on a two-count charge… In "News"