…says IGP must probe electoral violence  The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari to direct deployment of soldiers for the March 9 governorship and the House of Assembly elections in Ogun State. The party, which stated that its demand for military deployment was to check planned violence, also urged acting Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to investigate rising political violence in the state. Ogun state APC Publicity Secretary Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye made the calls while speaking with reporters in Abeokuta. Oladunjoye disclosed that the party was in possession of intelligence reports that violence would be unleashed by hoodlums in the full glare of top police officers, who had been issued a directive not to take any action. According to him, the deployment of soldiers also became imperative in the face of political violence which marred last Saturday’s Presidential and the National Assembly elections, in which a police corporal was shot dead in Eredo town in Yewa South Local Government Area of the state. Oladunjoye also bemoaned what he described as desperation of incumbent governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun to make his preferred candidate, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) next governor of Ogunh state. He said: “We are worried by the desperation of the state governor in his bid to install his preferred candidate as governor of Ogun state despite the clear signals from the last election that that project is a failed project. “I will also wish to remind you that in the past, various leaders of our party, including governorship aspirants, have raised alarm at various times on security situation in Ogun State. Our party also called on Inspector General of Police to set up an independent panel to examine and investigate rising political violence in Ogun state since October last year till now.  “It is regrettable that up till now, we have not even received an acknowledgement of our petitions and complaint from the police. The President came to town and his entourage were pelted openly in broad daylight, no single arrest has been made. We, therefore, express serious doubt about the ability of the present police commissioner to bring to book of those responsible. “If the President can be pelted in broad daylight and no arrest was made, how are you going to pick the killers of the police? We are asking the IGP not only to transfer the police commissioner away from Ogun State for the period of this election, but to also ensure that those who killed that policeman are brought to book within the shortest period possible.”  “We are finally asking President Muhammadu Buhari who has said in his acceptance speech that he is going to strengthen the presence of security to also make sure that soldiers are dispatched to Ogun State. “We are not saying they should be at polling booths, but they should be at strategic places to prevent any trouble makers because the intelligence report we have is that violence would be carried out in the presence of police officers who will not do anything. “Of course, our governorship candidate is also a prime target from the report we got this morning. He is a prime target up to the level of his polling booth. The governorship candidate is likely to be attacked. Last time, when we said he is going to be attacked, they said it’s a lie; we got this report this morning that he is going to be attacked.  “APM has its own presidential candidate in the last election who scored 36,000 votes nationwide. 33,000 out of the 36,000 votes came from Ogun state. This simply means 33,000 APM people voted against Buhari in Ogun State despite the loyalty and first son of Buhari being touted by the governor. We are now telling our people that in the next election, there is no sharing of vote, it is APC at the governorship and state Assembly level.”