President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid has received another boost with endorsement by retired military officers. The retired officers cut across the three armed forces of Army, Navy and Air Force. New Telegraph learnt that the generals comprise two Lt- Generals, 13 major generals, two Rear Admirals, eight Air Vice Marshals (AVM), two Rear Admirals, 12 Brigadier Generals, nine Air commodores, eight Commodores, and 17 former military administrators, among others. The generals were, yesterday, led to the Presidential Villa to a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari by former military administrator of Lagos State, Brig-Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd). Marwa heads a Presidential Advisory Committee for the elimination of drug abuse in the country. Some notable military men in attendance include former President Goodluck Jonathan’s Minister of Police Affairs, Navy Capt. Caleb Olubolade, and former Chief of the Naval Staff, Admiral Jubril Ayinla. Speaking at the event, President Buhari reiterated his main objective in contesting elections four times and ending up at the Supreme Court three times, before he finally won the election in 2015. “God has made this country great. We have human and material resources, and may God continue to give us the right leaders. My objective is very clear, and I will continue to do my best,” the President said. Buhari said that Nigerians have no other country to run to but Nigeria. “We will stay here and salvage it together,” he stressed. He noted that even if one was blessed enough to send children for training abroad, “after such training, they will still have to come back here.” “We must, therefore, give our best for our country. The patriotism imbued in us by the military will ever remain relevant. Let’s do our best for this country,” he said. Describing Nigeria as “a fabulous country,” the President said if it were not so, “the country could not have survived the damage done to it materially and morally in the past.” He glorified God that after 30 months of civil war, with over two million lives lost, “we are still one country.” Buhari prayed that Nigeria would not lack people who can exploit its human and material resources, adding: “The higher you go in Nigeria, the hotter it becomes, and not the other way round. But I can’t complain. I tried so hard to be here three times, ending up at the Supreme Court. So, I can’t complain over anything I am going through now.” He described the military as an institution that gives amazing opportunities to know the country, its different people and cultures. “I am very grateful that you have claimed me back as one of your own. I was governor of North-East, which is now six states, Minister of Petroleum for over three years, head of state; I was arrested and detained, but did not lose my rank, because nothing was found against me.” Speaking to State House Correspondents after the meeting, Marwa said what informed the endorsement was the fulfilment of all Buhari promised to do. He said: “As an officer and a gentleman, his word is his bond. After winning the elections, he brought out simple three-point programme – security, economy and fighting corruption.” According to Marwa, President Buhari has led the fight against corruption and is leading the fight by personal example, which shows the height of leadership. Marwa said: “On security, I have touched on the advances made the period before and when he took over from 2015 till date. I put the question, the bombings that used to go on in this FCT, Kaduna and so on, where are they today? The herdsmen crisis, where is it today? Where is IPOB today? “The Boko Haram are not flying their flags like they did before. They were in my local government for eight months, actually they even lived in my house, believe it or not, but they have been chased away and now they are just in the fringes of Lake Chad. Things are better. “You look at the infrastructure, it is the same thing. Things are happening everywhere, highways are coming up, there is no state of the federation that there is no work going on. In the railways, it is the same thing. So, the long and short of it is that when you demonstrate what you say you will do and you are from our own constituency, we must stand up and be counted. “And, therefore, the retired military officers today with former military governors, retired military officers from the ranks of Brigadier General and their equivalents from other officers are here today, to tell the President and to tell Nigerians that we are fully behind him in the elections next week and we will do whatever we can within the law to see that he is victorious in the elections.”