The Manager of Imo State Zoological Garden, Dr Francis Abioye, has cautioned Nigerians against killing protected animals including reptiles like python, saying doing so would attract jail term. Abioye gave the warning on Thursday when he mobilised members of the zoo task force to arrest a resident of Nekede autonomous community in Owerri West Local Government Area of  Imo, accused of killing a python. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the suspect, Mike Uzoma, allegedly killed the python and sold it on Wednesday. The area where the python was killed is less than a kilometer away from the zoo. However by the time the task force members got the community to effect the arrest,  the suspect had fled. The manager who addressed members of the community cautioned them against such act, explaining that all animals around the conservation area are protected by law. Abioye warned that anybody who kills a python or any animal protected by the law will be arrested and prosecuted. “I have come to educate all of you against the habit of killing animals that are protected by the law. “Anybody caught killing such animal must be jailed because we cannot continue to watch people destroy our nature out of ignorance”, he said. Abioye said rather than kill such animals, the residents should contact the zoo curator to capture them. Some of the residents, who spoke, commended the manager for coming to educate them on why some special animals must be protected. One of them, Mrs Angela Amaefula said she was ignorant of the law prohibiting the killing of some animals like python, and urged the zoo manager to make such enlightenment programme a regular event. According to her, doing so would enable members of the public to become fully aware of the need to be friendly with such animals. (NAN) The South-East geopolitical zone is about to witness the third in a series of Joint Military exercises, codenamed, 'Operation Python Dance,' and the people are agitated, as they relive the untoward experiences of the previous operations. The first two military activities, 'Operation Python Dance I' and 'Operation Python Dance II'… In "Editorial" A task force led by the President of National Association of Zoological Garden and Wildlife Park, Mr. Francis Abioye, yesterday accosted two persons for being in procession of body parts of elephant and buffalo which he said were endangered species. The suspects, Harisel Muhammed and Mahadi Yusuf, were subsequently arrested… In "Metro and Crime" Despite its avowed declaration to begin the muchtrumpeted Operation Python Dance nationwide on January 1, 2019, the Nigerian Army could not live up to its promise, as the first month of the year gradually winds down.   Aside a very few places, such as Ondo and Bayelsa, where the military… In "News"