“Our lives begin to end the day we keep quiet about things that matter” – Martin Luther King.  In 48 hours hence, Nigerians of 18 years and above who registered to vote in an election will troop out in over 120,000 polling centres across the country to cast their votes. Voting is a civic responsibility that is not made compulsory in any country but it’s an inevitable exercise expected from any patriotic citizen of adult age.   It is the kind of exercise that students call optionally compulsory. Former American Secretary of State and First Lady of that country, Hillary Clinton, has this to say about voting in an election and I agree with her that “voting is the most precious right of every citizen, and we have a moral obligation to ensure the integrity of our voting process.” On Saturday Nigerians would be voting for who is to be their President for the next four years starting from May 29, 2019 and also for members that will constitute the parliament in the two chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives.  This is going to be election like no other in the nation’s political history, it’s election that would go a long way in shaping the future of this country. Although there are many Presidential candidates flying the flag of their parties but their ramble ‘noise’ is not weighty enough to remove the focus on the two main contenders, the All Progressives Congress, APC’s, Muhammadu Buhari who is the incumbent currently occupying the throne and his main challenger, former Vice President of Nigeria and the Presidential flag bearer of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar.  It’s not by accident or luck that these two persons stand out, rather it’s by the fact that they lead a political platform that enjoy far more reach than the others having been in existence in all the 774 local government areas and thousands of electoral wards across the land and have been privileged to manage this country at federal and other levels of government.  The importance of this exercise is aptly encapsulated in Sharon Salzberg’s remarks that, “voting is the expression of our commitment to ourselves, one another, this country and this world.”  As you read this musing on Thursday, the candidates are on their final lap of the campaign ostensibly trying not to run afoul of the statutory requirements that halt vote canvassing by politicians through any means of communication at least 24 hours to voting. Nigerian voters are actually going to divide their votes between two Nigerians all of the same ethnic Hausa Fulani stock and who are all Muslims from the same geo-political North although with distinct characters and dispositions. From what they have been showcasing to Nigerians since the electioneering opened three months ago, the people would be voting to take the country to the next level as is aggressively being marketed by the ruling APC and their flag bearer, President Buhari or to get Nigeria working again as the PDP and its candidate Atiku are ‘atikulating’ around the country.  One thing is very clear in the campaign main themes of the top contenders, that where Nigeria is at the moment it does not deserve and that the country should be made to occupy its rightful place in the comity of nations. APC believes and preaches that Nigeria should go the next level; a leap they believe can only be fruitful if the people renew their mandate for the next four years. But the main opposition pushy to return to power it held for 16 years and only lost to APC in 2015, thinks that the level of destruction done to the country’s psyche through inept governance in the last three years is such that nothing can suffice for the land now except a change of batten that would lead to the rescuing of the country to make it work again. But having listened to them, the voters are going to be guided by so many factors in arriving at their eventual decision at the polling booth.  The duo, Buhari and Atiku, have been tested, they and their antecedents are not unknown to the people; they are all in the public domain.  What then will the people be looking out for? They would be looking out for the man with the capacity to implement what he says during the electioneering. Even though it does not seem as if the two main candidates are the best the country can offer but it would be political suicide to stay way because the best candidate is not on the ballot or is not a strong contender. Studies over time have shown that the real problem of the polity are those good ones who stay away on the voting day and allow the bad ones to determine their future while they go about critiquing and lamenting afterwards.   No wonder the political mathematics posits that you can either vote by voting or vote by not voting, because if you fail to vote someone’s vote counts even more. From all indications, Saturday’s election is one election that many Nigerians appear determined not to stay aloof. It’s not like the previous elections in the country where the people apparently due to distaste on the system choose to be conspicuously uninterested and uninvolved. This is one election that has awakened the political adrenaline of every interest in the country. The issue at stake in voting in this balloting is so high that everyone wants to be counted.  To refuse to vote in this election on Saturday is like refusing to answer ones father’s name and that means a great disservice to oneself and to the country. To refuse to vote on Saturday is to allow what you have been lamenting about to continue.  If because you do not like any of the front line candidates, President Buhari of APC and Alhaji Atiku of the PDP and you decide to stay away from voting, you are allowing others to give you the leader for the next four years. Saturday’s voting even comes with extra demand from us as good citizens. On Saturday being good citizen does not end in just casting your votes, it requires of us going extra mile to enable our vote have a meaning and reflecting the wish and desires of majority of Nigerians.  The situation in this election demands that we offer spare vigilance of casting our votes and defending it. The body language in this election does not suggest losers are going to be tolerant in defeat, in fact the indicators are not showing that anybody is willing to lose. The desperation is high and you can feel it in the air and it’s leading to unnecessary outbursts like the ‘ body bag’ threat to international observers by the Governor of Kaduna State Nasir elrufai.  And declaration of war in Port Harcourt, Rivers State by the Director General of the Presidential Campaign Council of the APC, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi.  However, even as we urge you to come out and vote, voting unwisely is as dangerous if not more grave as not voting. Truth remains that democracy thrives and grows only when the people vote wisely. But like Abraham Lincoln rightly captured it, “Elections belong to the people. It’s their decision. If they decide to turn their back on the fire and burn their behinds, then they will just have to sit on their blisters.” God bless our democracy.