 The telecommunications sub-sector contributed N9.7 trillion to Nigeria’s nominal GDP in 2018, New Telegraph has learnt.
This represents 7.57 per cent of the total GDP at current market price, which stood at N129.1 trillion according to statistics released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The sector’s contribution came as the fourth highest in the economy, led by crop production and trade sectors, whose contributions stood at 18.95 per cent and 17.16 per cent respectively. Crude Petroleum & Natural Gas sector came third with 10.93 per cent contributions in the year.  Year-on-year, the telecoms sector grew by 12.96 per cent in 2018 compared with 0.34 per cent recorded in 2017. According to NBS, the sub-sector’s output is measured through revenues from telephone, telex, Facsimile, telegraph, and other income from satellite and internet services in the country.
Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector, under which telecommunications stands prominently, recorded impressive performance in the year to boost the non-oil sector contributions to the economy. According to the NBS data, the non-oil sector accounted for 91.40 per cent of the real GDP in 2018.  Stakeholders in the ICT industry are of the view that the sector is capable of displacing oil and gas as the economic mainstay of the country, if given proper attention. They said the full potential of the sector would be realised with right amount of investments and right policies that will increase local capacity and participation in the ICT space, which is currently being dominated by foreigners.  The Executive Vice Chairman of Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta, had recently expressed satisfaction with the impacts of the sector on the nation’s economy.
According to him, even when the country was in recession, the sector continued to increase its contributions to the economy. “For instance, in the first quarter of 2017, telecommunications contributed N1.45 trillion to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), while the figures rose to N1.549 trillion in the second quarter of 2017. “This performance at a period of recession is very remarkable,’’ Danbatta explained.  He said that the Commission would keep date with the NBS to “identify and track how these trends continue.”
Danbatta said that in general terms, the telecoms industry contribution to GDP in Nigeria stood at 10 per cent yearly in the last four years.  He noted that those figures may not have told the entire story, as investments in human and material resources rise on daily basis. According to him, from a paltry 50 million dollars investment in the sector in 2001, the figures stood at 70 billion dollars as at first quarter of this year.
He said that Value Added Services (VAS) segment of the sector investment is over 200 million dollars and estimated to hit 500 million dollars by the turn of 2021. “The industry has provided direct and indirect employment to millions of Nigerians and over 150 million subscribers are connected to various networks with broadband penetration currently at 22 per cent, according to the UNESCO/ITU Sustainable Development Goal (SDG).”  Also, the Chairman of Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria, Gbenga Adebayo, an engineer, said there are indications that investments in the digital economy in Nigeria would generate up to $88 billion and three billion jobs for Nigerians before the end of 2021. According to him, Nigeria’s telecom sector has recorded some progress and doubled in size, now accounting for up to nine per cent of the country’s GDP.  “However, in the second edition of the world digital competi   tiveness ranking, released in 2018, which measures knowledge, technology and future readiness, Nigeria was not on the list,” he said. “We believe that the commitment and investments in industry infrastructure by telecommunications and network operators, aimed at achieving increase in broadband penetration will go a long way towards rectifying this; and as such, we hope to have contributed to building a fully digital economy in Nigeria by 2020.”   