Dr Kunden Deyin, the Plateau Commissioner for Health says the state has recorded 28  new cases of Lassa fever with 10 deaths. Deyin told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Jos on Thursday that 64 cases were taken to the laboratory for confirmation out of which 28 were confirmed to be Lassa fever. He said that one of the confirmed cases was imported from Kaduna State, adding that most of the affected persons are responding to treatments. He advised people to report immediately to the nearest health facility, whenever they had indications of any form of fever. “Lassa fever presents like any other fever, with symptoms such as headache, body pain and general feeling of being unwell. “”Therefore, anyone who is feeling feverish should visit the hospital immediately. “Prompt presentation is the key to reducing the mortality rate associated with the disease, but most times, patients do come to the hospitals late. “However, all health workers should make referrals to other health facilities such as the tertiary health facilities, when you cannot handle such cases like Lassa fever that require prompt medical attention”. Deyin also advised that people should learn to keep their environment clean and ensure that it is not rodent-friendly. He equally advised the residents to store all grains in rodent-proof containers. (NAN) The Plateau State Commissioner for Health, Deyin Kuden, has confirmed the death of one student, while two others have been hospitalised, following an outbreak of Lassa fever at the Federal Government College, Langtang, Plateau State. Kuden told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Langtang: “Yes, there was… In "Health" The resurgence of Lassa fever outbreak is an indication of failure in the nation’s healthcare delivery system. The virus has left 31 deaths across 15 states of the federation and 107 laboratory confirmed cases this year. The virus has infected no fewer than 10 health workers, including doctors and nurses,… In "Editorial" . . .17 new cases recorded   Plateau State government has confirmed 17 new Lassa fever cases with five deaths. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Kamshak Kuden, who confirmed the new cases of Lassa fever to our correspondent yesterday in Jos, said so far the state had recorded five deaths… In "Metro and Crime"