 In its bid to tackle the menace of call masking, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has engaged seven companies to deploy technological solutions in the telecoms space.
The action followed continuous incidence of calls emanating from outside the country being routed as local calls to deprive the local operators of call termination fee. According to the telecoms regulator, Nigeria is losing about $60 billion dollars annually to call masking activities, while the telecom operators are being denied revenue. Apart from the revenue loss to telcos, the act of call masking poses security threat as the origin of such calls cannot be traced by security agencies in case of terrorism or kidnapping. In addition, government is also losing revenue as taxes are not being paid over such calls.  The Commission had, last year, said it would look for technology solutions to address the problem. To that effect, in its latest enforcement report, the telecom regulator said it has now engaged seven companies to deploy the solutions. The companies, which the regulator failed to name in its report, were said to have presented a Proof of Concept (PoC) of their respective solutions to tackle the issue. According to the Commission, the PoC was done over a period of three months, which ended on October 31, 2018. “We have received and reviewed the reports from these solution providers, meeting was also held with the MNOs, directing them to grant the solution providers maximum support in this regard,” NCC said in its report.
The regulator said as the companies deployed their solutions, it has started observing a decline in call masking activities.  Call masking occur when an international call is terminated in Nigeria as a local number. The perpetrators compress the calls and strip them of their original numbers before terminating them on local networks. NCC had, in 2016, raised international termination rates (ITR), which is the amount paid by international operators for connecting to Nigerian operators when a call is initiated from overseas. The rate was increased from N3.90k to 24.40k to balance the deficit being recorded by the local operators due to the dwindling value of the local currency. However, this led to increase in masking activities to avoid paying the rate. The telecom operators, at a recent forum, said between September 2016 and September 2018, they had lost not less than 2.5 million minutes of international calls to fraudsters who are masking international calls to appear as local calls to profit from the interconnect rate difference as the telcos charge N3.90 for interconnecting local calls compared with 24.40 for international calls.  Representatives of the telcos comprising MTN, Globacom, Airtel, 9Mobile and Ntel begged the regulator to intensify its on-going efforts at stopping the crime to end the revenue loss.
Speaking at the Forum, which was aimed at raising subscribers awareness on the menace of call masking, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said the Commission had discovered that masking was being perpetrated with small movable devices called SIM boxes, which are electronic boxes loaded with SIM numbers to transmit calls undetected.  He said the discovery led to the suspension of six indicted interconnect exchange companies earlier this year. “Not only did the Commission suspend the indicted licensees, we also barred 750,000 numbers assigned to 13 operators from the national network,” he explained.
But despite the sanction, the illegal activities continued. According to Danbatta, the Office of National Security Adviser (ONSA), the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), and the Department of Security Service (DSS) had on several occasions raised concern about the issue, pointing out the security implications.  Highlighting efforts being put in place to address the challenge, the EVC said, “we are embarking on continuous compliance; monitoring and enforcement activities; to detect victims of call masking, SIM boxing, hand investigate channels used to commit the illegality. The commission also believes that tightening of SIM registration processes across all networks will curb SIM boxing as well as address the security issues around fraudulently-registered SIMs. “We are also in the process of choosing the best from a list of the solutions used in other countries to block the devices, track and apprehend the culprits.”
Danbatta noted that because of the negative impact of call masking practice on national security and consumer experience, the commission was ready to deal with any of the licensees implicated in the scam.