Ekene Nwakuche, a former co-defendant to an embattled former Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA),  Patrick Akpobolokemi, over an alleged N754 million, yesterday said that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, had promised not to prosecute him if he testifies in court. Nwakuche, a former defendant now turned prosecution witness, made this statement while testifying against his former boss, Ezekiel Agaba and Akpobolokemi before an Ikeja High Court, Lagos. The witness was earlier arraigned alongside Akpobolokemi, Agaba,  Governor Juan, Vincent Udoye, Adegboyega Olopoenia and a company — Gama Marine Nigeria Ltd by the EFCC. During the course of the trial, Nwakuche alongside two other defendants agreed to testify against his former boss,  Ezekiel Agaba and Akpobolokemi. However, during yesterday’s proceeding,  Nwakuche, while being cross-examined by the 2nd defendant’s counsel,  Edoka Onyeke, told the court that his boss,  Agaba, who was beside him at the EFCC office, was the one telling him what to write in his statement. “My boss was beside me at the EFCC office while I was writing my statement.  He was telling what to say. “EFCC promised not to charge me to court alongside my boss if I testified,” he said. Nwakuche, however, denied that the anti-graft commission threatened him. He, however, admitted that he made contradictory statements at the anti-graft agency’s office which had earlier necessitated a trial-within-trial to determine if he had indeed been coerced to make the statement. When asked by Onyeke if he recalls having given evidence as a defendant in this case, he replied yes. Onyeke asked, “Recall that during your evidence, had claimed your statement at the EFCC office was not voluntarily stated; of which the entire purpose was to have your evidence not admitted in court?” Nwakuche replied, “Yes! But I didn’t contest the statement in its entirety. Well, there are several things that happened at that time. I remember I said I had given contradictory statements or statements that might put me in trouble”. The witness, however, denied that he was a member of the VIMSAS committee but that his boss was the chairman of that committee. Nwakuche, however, maintained that as the Personal Assistance (PA) to Agaba,  he was not physically present at any meeting for the budget of VIMSAS in 2014/2015 but that meetings were only held for audits. The witness also maintained he was not mentioned in any of the memos or minutes of the meetings. He also denied working for ArrowWorld Consulting which is said to be one of the companies used to syphon funds from NIMASA. When asked if he saw any document or memo by NIMASA disengaging that VIMSAS carried out any activity or exercise as stated in the 2014/2015 budget, he replied No. Meanwhile, during the last adjourned date, the former PA had told the court that in order to syphon funds,  NIMASA budgets were inflated by the defendants before taken to the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) for approval. Nwakuche said that a VIMSAS account was opened in Zenith Bank on Aug. 29, 2014, N198 million was paid into the account while on June 20, 2014, N300 million was paid into the account from the office of the NSA. The former PA noted that he had made various withdrawals worth millions of Naira behalf of Agaba and that funds were illegally transferred into bank accounts belonging to acquaintances of the defendants. Nwakuche said that funds that were approved for VIMSAS by the office of the NSA were withdrawn from the bank, converted to dollars and handed over to Akpolokemi and Agaba. He said the total deposit to the VIMSAS account was N816 million and that N752.3 million was debited by the defendants a total of  36 times. “At a point,  I had more than $2 million dollars in my possession for the ED in my house,  I was taking it piecemeal to his house,  sometimes  I give some of the money to him in his office or in his car,” Nwakuche had said. The presiding Judge,  Justice Raliat Adebiyi thereafter adjourned the matter till March 4,5,6,7 and 8 for the continuation of trial.