It was, no doubt, night of fun and great entertainment, on January 26, 2019, set within the tranquil gardens of the famous Freedom Park, Lagos. “I Am Amazon” (Amazing) concert is an all ladies performance concert which, according to the organisers, aims to showcase Nigerian Female talent. Opening the floodgate of performances was the amazing all female dancers, The Star Kids. Clad in Red T-Shirts and black shorts, the versatile youngsters feted the audience to a rich dance presentation that drew ovation from the audience. This was followed by an all female drums assemble and dancers whose ignited the stage with pulsating performances. Thereafter, Maka, a soul singer/ songwriter based in Lagos, Nigeria, Known for her fluid fusion of genres like soul, hip hop, Jazz and rap, mounted the stage, and have the audience a thrilling and inspiring performance that would linger. Her music influences dates back to her childhood days in the choir with her mom. With a background in Law, Maka is a full time musician having shared stages with artists like Bez, Simi, MI Casa among others, she’s graced the Felabration stage in Lagos and headlined her first solo concert in Abuja and Lagos in 2016 to launch her first EP “The Truth”. Highpoint of the show, which was hosted by Reni Kuti, a dancer, singer and first child of the legendary Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, include performances by Kayefi, Phebean, Aduke and Ego. Kayefi is a recording artist with songs that belong to a unique genre of music. There is a blend of African melody, a fusion of Ijala (a traditional African chant from the Yoruba speaking part of Nigeria) and pure soul, which thus produces an enticing brand of music aptly called Afro-soul. Kayefi has been in the music industry for a few years and she has worked with notable Nigerian artistes such as 9ice, KSB, Tuface Idibia, Dagrin, ID Cabasa and a host of others. She is a highly gifted singer who takes singing to a whole new level because of her unique performance ability. Her recorded works include; oreske, idowu ogbo, iya mi o si nle yi, underrated, street credibility (a duet with 9ice), etc. She has worked with many leading producers, amongst who includes ID Cabasa, Cobhams Asuquo. Kayefi has just entered a new phase in her career; she is taking her music to a different level. She currently has projects lined up with many international artistes including the well-established top UK producer DJ Simba. Tosyn Phebean Oluwadare, popularly known as Phebean, is one of the prominent female saxophonists in the country. Known as Africa’s Sax Queen in some quarters, Phebean has been showcasing her skill of the wind instrument at different social events with the masters; she plays both backup and lead roles. Her inspiring performance at the concert drew ovation from the audience. With an eye on the global scene, where she hopes to stand shoulder to shoulder with jazz exponents and generously dishing out her Afro-centric music to the admiration of all, Phebean stated that success in the entertainment industry is not based on gender, but genuine creativity and hard work. For Aduke Aladekomo, art is life and music is the core of her passion. A graduate of history and Strategic studies from the University of Lagos, her single, ‘Made in Lagos’, is a song that addresses rural / urban migration which is a common trend in major cities all over the world, inspired by real life situations. At a very early age, she had passion for deep philosophical thoughts and words coupled with the love for rhythm. This was brought to the fore as she thrilled the audience. It was also a night of beautiful performance by the multiple award-winning Ego, a former member of the Africano music band Lagbaja. The organisers further stated: “Last December there was practically no major concert that involved a female artist as a headliner. In concerts where they were featured a male singer also had to take centre stage. The ‘I am Amazon concert’ is to showcase five highly talented artistes in an all-female concert…”