Comrade Femi Aborisade, a lawyer and human rights activist, in this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, speaks on the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies, among others   The 2019 general elections will kick off this Saturday with the presidential and National Assembly elections. What are your expectations?  I exercise deep fear about the desperation being shown by the major political parties; the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). The campaign rallies organised intra-party were marred by violence, bloodshed and death. This must give one serious concern about insecurity and violence that may characterize the general elections. What are the fears and concerns you have about the elections? What is of concern to me is that the two major political parties want to use the elections to renew their mandate of misgovernance or to displace the incumbent, so that the same ruinous policies that has brought Nigeria to its knee; that has subjected our people to unprecedented poverty may continue. It is a renewal of their ruinous governance process and policies that we are about to see. We are now going to see a renewal of governance base on the interest, the well being and welfare of ordinary people. It is like the electorate, the ordinary people in particular going to vote to be impoverished, going to renew the mandate for their executioners to continue to rule. Seventy-three candidates are contesting the presidential election, but the race seems to have been narrowed down to two people; President Muhammadu Buhari of APC and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of PDP. What is your take on that? We have about 91 political parties and over two-third of them are contesting the election. We know that ordinary people are already excluded. Only those who have looted resources can make electoral impact on the basis of the kind of election we organise in this country. The newly emerging political parties lack the resources. They have not looted and some of them are not in the business of looting. A party like the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) is led by Alhaji Balarabe Musa, a man who went in into governance as governor of Kaduna State and came out and you cannot say he is a wealthy man.  Materially, he remains a poor man but in term of credibility, he is a very rich man. So, parties like PRP, Sowore’s party, African Action Congress (AAC); the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) and several others are not in the business of looting; they have never looted. Even if they have opportunity, they will not loot. For them to have agents to monitor elections alone at polling units would take several billions of naira. Where would they get it?  I was in the business before. I contested in 2003 to be governor of Oyo State. Even in areas where we had polling agents; they were threaten at gun point to sign fortified results. So, the elections in Nigeria including the one that we are going to witness are nothing but opportunity for the executioners of the people to renew their mandate. Some people believe that the 2019 presidential election will provide the opportunity to elect someone on the platform of a new party. Do you see this coming to reality?  I agree with that perspective. APC and PDP are the problems of Nigeria. They are pains of the masses. They are the agony of the ordinary people. They must be voted out of power at all levels of governance for the Nigerian people, ordinary people to enjoy their lives. But that can only be if the newly emerging political parties are able to unite electorally at least, but I have not seem much of that happening. It is difficult for new and small political parties just coming up to displace the established political parties.  So, my appeal to them is to find way of uniting, forming electoral alliances at different levels. But beyond that, they must also unite on the basis of a minimum programme and that minimum programme should be the implementation of the Chapter Two of the Constitution; the right to education, the right to housing, the right to shelter, the right to food, the right for electricity, the right to water. I want to see for example the newly emerging political parties coming together on a programme that will say abolition of security votes; that be you Mr. Governor or President of Nigeria, you will not earn more than national minimum wage, so that resources can be available to implement programmes that can remove extreme poverty in our land. I want to see a minimum programme among the new political parties that will say that they will adopt direct labour in the implementation of public projects rather than embarking on stomach infrastructure. What I identified as stomach infrastructure is award of contracts to private sectors. The APC prides itself as having awarded the highest amount of contracts to the private sector. To me, that is stomach infrastructure to their agents and fronts in the private sectors. What government ought to do is to ensure that the public departments and ministries provide certain things. Ministry of Water Resources should be able to provide water. Ministry of Housing should be able to build houses for our people; social housing for the people. Ministry of Works should be able to construct our roads in partnership either between state governments or in partnership between Nigeria and other national governments rather than awarding contracts to the private sectors. Governance in Nigeria is nothing but ‘contractocracy’ and by ‘contractocracy’ I mean government by award of contracts. Governance should go beyond award of contracts. So, if the newly emerging political parties are able to form electoral alliances on a minimum programme that will include all these issues, Nigerian people would see a different. So, it is not sufficient to say we have never being in power. What is most important is; what is the difference between your programme and the programme of the established political parties? Unless our people are able to see clear cut difference in term of their programme, the Nigerian people many not necessarily identify with them.  Do you have trust in INEC to conduct credible, free and fair elections? I have no trust in the INEC. INEC has shown that it cannot be trusted. It cannot be trusted because I am counsel to the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and INEC in some of their written minutes of meetings said they will not obey court order to reinstate some of the political parties that were deregistered because if they do for one, other political parties that were deregistered would also be coming forward, wanting to be re-register. So, a commission that has no respect for court orders, court decisions and court judgements cannot be trusted. So, I have no trust at all in INEC. What about the security agents, which also have important roles to play in security the people and election materials? The security agencies are to provide security but the question is from experience, the rank and file tends to be used against the interest of the ordinary electorate. When we were contesting in 2003, we saw instances where security agencies were partaking in ballot stuffing and thumb printing for ruling political parties in various states of Nigeria. So, I have my fears. They are not likely to be independent to be able to provide security for all on an equal footing. That is my fear. Base on the issues you raised about INEC and the security agencies, how do you think they can be addressed? Those issues cannot be addressed unless there is a fundamental change in the system. What we need is not just regime change; a change from PDP to APC or APC to PDP as the case may be. No. What we need is system change. And before we can have system change, it will require the masses of our people voting with their stake, demonstrating and demanding a change in the social order; the wellbeing of the people. The solution to problems confronting ordinary people in Nigeria is not likely to come through the fraudulent electoral process that they are organising in this country. What is your take on shoot at sight order by President Buhari for ballot box snatchers? The shoot at sight democracy or policy prescription for ballot box snatchers declared by President Buhari has confirmed that he is an unrepentant real risk to society in terms of disposition to arbitrariness and tyranny, even though decent people do not support electoral violence, including ballot box snatching. No one is in doubt that the policy would only be implemented arbitrarily against the opposition in the same way in which deodorant treatment is given to corrupt politicians who are pro President Buhari/APC whilst insecticide treatment is served on corrupt politicians who are not pro President Buhari/APC. We call on President Buhari to publicly withdraw the Stone Age decree and apologise to Nigerians for the barbaric, unlawful, arbitrary and undemocratic Presidential Order, which shows total disregard for the operation of the rule of law. The Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government should publicly announce unconditional commitment to the due process and Section 129(4) of the Electoral Act, which prescribes 24 months imprisonment for the same offence. What is your advice to the electorate and politicians ahead of Saturday’s presidential and National Assembly elections? My advice is that, for the Nigerian people, before they go to vote; in their communities, associations, trade unions, professional bodies; they should take written undertaking from the politicians as to what they will do before they can earn their votes. If they are not ready to give written undertaking as to what they will do to improve the lots of the masses, they should not vote for such people.