The 2019 elections will settle the superiority battle between Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) and the Information Minister, Lai Mohammed of the All Progressives Congress (APC), over who controls Kwara State, writes BIODUN OYELEYE  Last Tuesday, the Court of appeal, Ilorin Division settled an issue that had been a major headache to the political configuration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State. In a unanimous decision, the appellate panel agreed with the party that its former chairman in the state, Alhaji Ishola Balogun-Fulani, could no longer lay claim to that position, having been expelled by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party which was also confirmed as the authentic organ of the party to nominate candidates for elective positions in the country.  Although counsel to Balogun-Fulani promised to pursue the matter to the Supreme Court, the APC camp in the state, led by Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed could only heave a big sigh of relief that a political albatross had been eventually removed from his team’s strategic battle against the political establishment in the state, led by no other than the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki.  The court issue had been a strong instrument in the hands of Balogun-Fulani who was seen as playing the devil’s advocate for Saraki in the state’s chapter of the APC. It was believed that Saraki had left the former Majority Leader of the state’s Assembly in the APC to explore the perceived technical flaw in the way the NWC of the APC, led by Comrade Adams Oshiomole, expelled members of the former State Working Committee (SWC) from the party, few days to the defection of Saraki from the APC.  The Saraki strategy did work, even if for a few months, particularly when the state High Court ruled in December last year that the Balogun-Fulani faction was the authentic leadership of the party. The judgment, now set aside by the Appeal Court, gave some confidence and a platform for the former SWC members to conduct primaries, openly campaign and picked their own candidates and even when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) published its list of candidates for the election, the body was forced to insert the word ‘court order’ against the names of Kwara APC candidates, thus creating a psychological disadvantage for APC members and candidates and a morale booster for Balogun-Fulani and co who went out to even query why the electoral body failed to register the names of their own factional candidates.  The Balogun-Fulani group was to have been a technical trap against the APC. If it had succeeded, it would have meant that the Lai Mohammed APC group would not have had any candidate in this election, thus setting off an almost free ride for the Saraki political structure in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). But now that the appellate court has ruled them out of legal favour, the battle is properly set for Saraki and Lai Mohammed to prove their respective political worth in the state, along with their followers.   Can Lai defeat Saraki?  The Minister has twice attempted to rule the state but in each of those elections, failed to secure enough votes to have been declared winner. Yet this time around, surrounded by former key members of Saraki’s political machinery, including Senator Gbemisola, younger sister to the Senate President, the Minister and his troops believe it is doable. His confidence will rest on three major factors, among others: the ‘federal might’ which has never been on his side since attempting to have a control in the politics of the state but which he now controls, the outcome of the November 2018 bye-election into the House of Representatives in his constituency which his party won, defeating Saraki in a local election for the first time, and the grassroots movement in the state which fused into the APC with its uncommon political, rallying slogan, O To Ge (‘it is enough’)   November bye-election and o to ge  Even though the winning figure in the bye-election was only 3,141, to the opposition the outcome of the bye- election was significant in many ways; it was Saraki’s first election since he again left the APC, back to his former PDP and it was the opposition’s first major victory since the various groups working against the Saraki structure came together under one roof to pursue their ambition. The Minister described the event, which was widely celebrated, as the beginning of the fall of the Berlin Wall in Kwara politics, a refrain that was widely chorused when President Muhammadu Buhari led his campaign train to the state two weeks ago.  The O To Ge slogan is a political clarion call to end the domination of the Saraki dynasty in the politics of the 52-year old state and gubernatorial candidate of the APC, Alhaji AbdulRazaq AbdulRahman, popularly called AA, justified the movement as most timely. “It is moot point to ask why we want to end the current political status quo in Kwara,” he once told this newspaper, adding: “as somebody from the private sector, I see the running of Kwara as is being done as an anomaly.”  He said further: “We have a government and functionaries that are only interested in being in charge of public funds and privileges of public office without any commensurate delivery of services to the public. There are several anomalies going on in our state to the extent that people outside Kwara often regard our people as second-class people. Among the six states created in 1967, Kwara has the second lowest internally generated revenue and this speaks to lack of creativity and economic activities in the state.”  As for the federal might, the Minister needs not worry. Few weeks after the victory at the bye-election Mohammed had told some party members that while leaving Abuja for Ilorin prior to the polls, he had made only one request from President Buhari: give us enough security and leave us alone.
The PDP believes Buhari acceded to that request, but that instead of the security agents being neutral, they allegedly compromised the electoral process. Five days before the poll, state chairman of the PDP, Hon Kola Shittu had briefed newsmen over what he called apprehension of the party about the alleged planned manipulation of the process. He had alleged that the Federal Government’s plan to deploy no fewer than 20,000 policemen and soldiers for the by-election was a ploy to by the APC-led central government to create fear in minds of the voters and that it was done solely because of a desire to deal with Saraki. This fear accounts for the cries by the party against the posting of Kayode Egbetokun, former Chief Security Officer to National Leader of the APC, Alhaji Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to head the Kwara State Police Command. The police boss has nevertheless promised that his past would not affect his present duty. Although he did not mention it specifically, Tinubu had told party members who came out to meet Buhari at the presidential campaign rally in Ilorin that the party’s leadership is interested in teaching the Senate President ‘a lesson’. According to Tinubu, the opposition to Saraki’s leadership of the politics of Kwara State was not an affront on the political dynasty started by his father, the late Dr. Olusola Saraki, but a need to ‘discipline’ the Senate President whom he alleged has stood against his own political godfather. He explained that since another member of the Saraki family, Senator Gbemisola, is in the APC, it will not be right to fight her family. He told the crowd: “We are not here to fight Baba Saraki’s family because Gbemisola is here and she is his daughter. But today we have come to discipline Bukola.”  Gbemisola goes solo The presence of the former senator in the APC has not been a surprise to those familiar with the politics of Kwara. Since his elder brother stood against her ambition to succeed him as governor of the state in 2015, GRS, as she is fondly called, has been at logger heads, politically, with the Senate President. Although their animosity was initially settled by their father before his demise, Gbemisola still camped with the PDP in 2015 under President Goodluck Jonathan. She, however, defected to join her brother in the APC reportedly with some push from Tinubu but also significantly because the then PDP fold did not trust the ‘sincerity’ of her fight with her brother. And they never hid it until she left them. The PDP then was composed of people opposed to any link with the Sarakis and they openly said so, creating an embarrassment for the former senator. They ‘blocked’ her out of the gubernatorial race in 2015.  Now that she has once again decided to pitch her tent against her brother, the level of trust is somewhat higher, particularly among Lagos based politicians from the state while her people from Kwara are said to be dealing with her with caution. Incidentally, the same set of people who doubted her in 2015 still forma the bulk of the local APC in the state. This perhaps explains the clarification made by Tinubu during the Ilorin rally. Although she has a lot of supporters, some of them have refused to stay with her in the APC, preferring to move on with her brother into the PDP. PDP leaders expressed sadness that during the Buhari visit, even though Gbemisola, a scion of the Saraki stock, would on a normal day control more crowd than most of the political gladiators in the APC, she was not allowed to speak at the rally but was merely made to wave to the crowd from a distance. ‘Is that what they have reduced us to?’ a PDP elder asked rhetorically at a campaign rally in Alapa, Asa local government area of the state to reinforce their argument that a win for the APC in Kwara would see the state come under the control of APC leaders in Lagos state.   Saraki fights back  Expectedly, the Senate President is not taking things lying low. The PDP under his leadership in the state, has revamped its strategies and found its own response to the O To Ge slogan. At every campaign stop, the song on the lips of PDP members now is O Tun Ya, which speaks of continuity.
His first move was to review the situation in the southern part of the state where his party suffered its first defeat. He engineered a reconfiguration of the senate ticket in the district, making governor AbdulFattah Ahmed to drop his ticket in favour of Senator Rafiu Ibrahim who is considered more sellable to the electorates in the constituency.  He has also significantly sold the idea of avoiding ‘slavery to Lagos’, the West, as it is commonly called among his native Ilorin people, through voting for the PDP in the state. And he has ready examples to support his argument: most of those leading opposition against him are based majorly in Lagos, or Abuja. The Minister is mostly based in Lagos where he had served as Chief of Staff to Tinubu and his son is a member of the state’s House of Assembly, the APC Chairman is more of Lagos, the party’s gubernatorial candidate is more of Lagos and Abuja and several of the party’s campaigns in the current election season were done in Lagos.  Some key stakeholders, among them even APC stalwarts, have bought into the argument. One of them, a renowned social critic, APC stalwart and opponent of the Sarakis, Alhaji AbdulKareem Olola Kasum, National President of Afonja Descendants Union (ADU) has come out to caution his kinsmen against ‘selling Bukola to an outsider’.  Olola Kasum, who spoke with this newspaper two weeks ago, cautioned that giving the Kwara central senatorial ticket to the APC would reverse the opportunities that Ilorin currently enjoys as ‘producer’ of the Number Three citizen in Nigeria, a position he pointed out that Ibrahim Oloriegbe, the APC candidate, cannot attain even if he wins the polls.  He said: “If Saraki is defeated because of the propaganda that is coming from our party, Ilorin will lose the Senate Presidency. However the major concern of the people right now is not the position but to just get the man out because of perceived failings. But doing that will be like throwing away the baby with the bathwater.  “Ilorin should not throw away Saraki. I am not saying Saraki is a good man but losing him will lead to other things that will be too late for us to correct. It is not impossible for anyone to make mistakes but we should be ready and find the way out of such mistake.” The Senate President has also warmed his way back to the hearts of many stakeholders who had hitherto been angry that he neglected them. He had personally met with several traditional rulers, women groups, artisans etc, explaining his limitations occasioned by the three and a half years the Federal Government put him under trial at the CCT. He has also personally led campaigns to several parts of the state and the reception accorded his team, except in one or two instances, has been encouraging.  He has also sought to reduce the collateral damage that could have come to the party for picking its gubernatorial candidate from Kwara central instead of Kwara north. Although both the APC and PDP offended the Kwara north people, there appears a stronger opposition to the PDP in the north than for the APC. To court the people, Saraki has negotiated two things: one, ceding the positions of SSG and Speaker of the state Assembly to the north if PDP wins this election and two, allowing the north to produce the governor by 2023, instead of 2027. Both are seen as masterstrokes and it is already having impact with virtually all prominent traditional rulers in the zone queuing up behind the formula. Those who query its sincerity are asked to produce their own version and sign it, with traditional rulers as witnesses, as the PDP has done.  And Saraki insists that Kwara is a no-go area for the APC in this elections. The Senate President, while addressing a crowd of PDP supporters at a campaign rally at Afon, Asa Local Government Area of the state said the fact that he was the focus of verbal attacks by APC leaders at their rally in Ilorin only justifies his position that the party has nothing concrete to offer Nigerians.  He called on the electorate to use the first set of elections to teach the APC a lesson to show that the state will never be subjected to taking orders from Lagos.  His words: “The Presidential and National Assembly election is all about Nigeria. The polls are also about Kwara. When I first said this many wondered but when Buhari came you all saw what happened. They spent the entire day abusing me because they have no plan for us here except to abuse Saraki. That is unlike the PDP that trusts us and have assured us to have the Senate President after election.  “Let’s use this election to teach them a lesson that Kwara is our own and we will never take orders from Lagos. Kwara is a no go area for them, let’s tell them with our votes. The APC is made up of people who enjoyed your votes because we asked you to vote for them even when you didn’t know them but out of greed they are out of our fold. The second group is made mainly of rebels who have nothing to offer but just to antagonise Saraki.  “Buhari does not understand governance. We are not abusing him, we are saying the truth.” The truth will be revealed by the outcome of this poll, anyway.    Supporters of the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, and the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, are at loggerheads over the structures of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State. A faction of APC loyal to Mohammed has asked the national leadership of the party to dissolve… In "News" Elected leaders of the All Progressive Congress (APC) from Kwara South senatorial district has denounced Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed over his call for the dissolution of the party's executive committee in the state. Addressing newsmen in Ilorin, the state capital, Chairman of the senatorial district, Alhaji… In "News Around Nigeria" The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dissolved the executive of the Kwara State chapter of the party loyal to Senate President Bukola Saraki. The party, in a statement endorsed by the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and National Secretary, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni, appointed Hon.… In "News"