American philosopher and poet Ralph Waldo Emerson once said: ”It is not length of life, but depth of life.” The outpouring tributes that trailed the death of one-time Secretary General of the Nigeria Football Federation Taiwo Ogunjobi encapsulates the quality of life the former football chief led and gave credence to evocative words of Emerson. The whole country woke up to the disturbing news on Monday that the former Green Eagles defender was no more. The story of his demise was more shocking because the former Shooting Stars skipper was still seen few days earlier bubbling with life. “He was in hospital on Saturday and doctors ordered a bed rest, but he passed away Monday morning in Ibadan,” Tunde Shamsudeen, his Personal Assistant, said. Ogunjobi’s death came 35 years after he made his debut for the Green Eagles in an Olympic qualifier against Morocco. He was a colossal figure in football circle who seamlessly transited from active football to the administration of the game where he made his name. Precocious Ogunjobi alongside Christopher Stober, Vincent Eburajolo, Victor Giwa, Chris Okolo of Ibadan Grammar School were stars of the Academicals in 1973 under the tutelage of former Governor, Lam Adesina, who was then the school’s game master. It wasn’t long before he became a key member of the Nigerian Academicals; in fact he was the captain of the country’s football team that won the Nigeria/ Ghana Sports festival that year. Instructively, his raw talents did not go unnoticed as he was quickly drafted by Shooting Stars of Ibadan in 1974. “He joined Shooting Stars ahead of Kunle Awesu, Muda Lawal and I, even though in the same year in 1974 we formed a formidable partnership in the team,” Nigerian legend Segun Odegbami said. Ogunjobi, despite his immense talent, knew where he would markedly make his mark later in life when he abruptly ended his stint with Shootings Stars which was arguably the biggest side at the time, to pursue his academic endeavour in the Clemson University in the United States of America on full scholarships. Many of his mates thought he was ‘stupid’ to abandon a glittering career at the club for education but the youngster knew exactly what he was doing. After five years abroad, many thought Ogunjobi, with a certificate from a University abroad, would veer into other endeavour upon arriving in the country but his immense love for Shooting Stars and football wouldn’t allow him dump the game. It was a story that made the headlines of major newspapers when Shooting Stars announced the return of their illustrious player, he didn’t re-join the team as an ordinary player but assumed immediate leadership as captain when Samuel Ojebode was retired. With the likes of Lawal, Odegbami, Awesu, Christian Chukwu, Emmanuel Okala, he became part of the national team known as Green Eagles. He was handed his debut by former German coach, Karl- Heinz Marotzke. He was a fairly successful entity with the national team but it was in the administrative aspect of the game that he shone more. Upon retiring from the game, and with a clear vision of what he wanted to do, Ogunjobi opted for administration instead of coaching. He joined his old club Shooting Stars as a secretary and no time he was promoted to the position of Gen-eral Manager where he led the club to the final of CAF Winners’ Cup. He later became the sole administrator of the club, a position considered as arguably the best at that time. Ogunjobi later left his comfort zone to become the President of Gabros Football Club of Nnewi, Anambra State. His magic wand resonated across the country with the Anambra state-based side. He had a two-year stint with Julius Berger FC where he also distinguished himself before applying as the Secretary General of the Nigeria Football Association. He glamorised that position in such a manner that some pundits usually jocularly compared his popularity with the then president of the NFA. After serving out as the Secretary General of the NFA, Ogunjobi returned to his home state, Osun, to become the FA chairman and from there he contested for a seat on the board of the NFA and was made the Chairman of the Technical Committee. A savvy administrator, he made that committee a powerful bloc within the federation, and many decisions even beyond those concerning national teams were conceptualised by the group and usually got express approv a l of the NFF b o a r d . While in charge, the country qualified for all international football competitions at all levels for the first time. However, there was a snag on his meteoric rise when he was linked with a misappropriation of N1.4billion which truncated the Sani Lulu-led board.The allegation, which he was later cleared of by the court, could not stop him from attempting to return to the football house. Two times, he contested for the position of the President of the NFF but the incumbent Amaju Pinnick beat him on those occasions. Osun State football witnessed a tremendous lift since he became the boss. Every year, he organised several youth competitions and he later became the chairman of state-owned Prime FC of Osogbo and it wasn’t long before the club benefitted from his magic wand after he led them to the bronze medal of the FA Cup. He was rewarded with an appointment by the former Osun State Governor Rauf Aregesola as the special Adviser on football matters. “Ogunjobi was a gentleman and he was a lover of everybody, he was somebody who didn’t keep malice, if he believe in you he will remain with you and he was gentle up to the last breath,” another former Secretary General of the NFF, Bolaji Ojooba, told our correspondent. “He was always afraid of offending people and he was dedicated and committed to his job, he preferred people to offend him instead of offending them; so we have lost a great factor, a dependable and committed friend. “Even if many people felt he was unfairly treated at the level of football but those who are experienced in football still recognised him. People across believe in him and in South-West zone, we recognised him as the heart of sports; so we saw him as a mobiliser and as the sole of football in this our zone, heavens will bless him. “When he was the Secretary-General of NFF, he brought in financial discipline to the system and ensured that players and officials got their entitlements as and when due in all the national teams.” “His exit has left a big gap in our football especially now that football in Nigeria is on the watch list of football community,” a former NFF president Aminu Maigari said. “Soul Inspirator, as we fondly called him would be remembered for his contributions towards the development of the round leather game in Nigeria both at the national and state level. I sincerely hope that his legacy and beliefs will live on for the upcoming football administrators to emulate.” Ex-international and former Shooting Star midfielder Mutiu Adepoju said he followed Ogunjobi’s footstep to transit from active football to administration. He said football gained so much from the dead and the late former player should be immortalised. He said: “It’s just unfortunate that he is gone; when I heard the news, I was so devastated and I couldn’t just comprehend it. He was someone that I was looking up to administratively. He did a lot for the country both as a player and as administrator; he was a one-time secretary general of the NFF. “He is going to be missed and I believe there is nothing too much to immortalise him for what he did for Nigerian football. I learnt a lot from him when he was alive and I just hope all the accolades won’t end after his burial. I hope they will do something to remember him in the nearest future.”