Under fire Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri will be keen to shove up his dwindling popularity among Chelsea fans as the defending champions clash with Man United in the headline tie of the FA Cup Fifth round at Stamford Bridge. His counterpart, Ole Gunner Solksjaer, who is on an interim appointment, is facing a similar situation after his bubble was busted on Tuesday by PSG in a Champions League Round 16 game – although he is not facing the kind of heat his Italian counterpart is facing having managed to impose stability on the side he inherited from Jose Mourinho in December. Sarri came to England offering lots of hopes to Chelsea fans with his brand of play tagged ‘Sarri Ball’ but it was cynically turned to ‘Sorry Ball’ following the 6-0 annihilation of the Blues at Man City last Sunday. Although Chelsea, who played Swedish club Malmo,in the Europa League on Thursday, are still in the hunt for three trophies this season, the FA Cup seems to be their best hope considering the amount of success they have enjoyed in the oldest football competition of which they are the defending champions. The forgettable outing at the Etihad still resonates across the globe but the Blues can get themselves back with a win over Manchester United who they beat to the title at Wembley last May. Much of the hosts’ hope lies on their playmaker Eden Hazard who failed to impose himself against the Citizens although he came out during the week to express satisfaction with the brand of football played under Sarri at Stamford Bridge. Chelsea can also look forward new buy Gonzalo Higuain, Pedro, Willian to keep put smiles back on the face of their supporters. On his part, Solksjear, a Manchester United Legend, who famously scored the winner in a dramatic comefrom- the-dead 2-1 Champions League win over Bayern Munich two decades ago, had before the PGS match expressed his desire to take over the managerial job at Old Trafford on full-time basis but the loss has diminished his odds and a win against Chelsea would surely help his dream. Having recorded wins against London clubs which include Arsenal and Tottenham, the babyface assassin is keen to dust himself and set his side on another fantastic run as the season enters its decisive stage. Rejuvenated Paul Pogba is expected to play a key role in this game to banish the misery of the Champions League defeat that saw him expelled after two cautions. The likes of Jesse Lingaard, Alexis Sanchez and Marcus Rashford would also be key as United desperately look forward to a win which represents their best chance of ending the season with a title.