•A time to express love -Okotie  •Not a day of defilement -Idahosa  •It’s about what people do for love –Erumaka   This year’s Valentine’s Day comes up just two days ahead of February 16, when Nigerians will head to the polls to decide who will be their next President. As crucial as the decision is, neither the gale of endorsements for the major presidential candidates nor the perilous political trends in the country is enough deterrent for Nigerians who naturally want to make their dear ones happy on the lover’s day.
Sunday Telegraph survey, however, reveals that of weightier concern to some Christian leaders is howthe Val Day celebration should be rightly observed. Former pop star and founder of Household of God Mission, Rev Chris Okotie, defined Valentine Day as a time to show love to humanity. “As Christians, it is a time for us to express the love of God as our Lord Jesus Christ demonstrated towards mankind.” For those who may capitalise on the season to carry love expression too far, Rev Okotie added: “It advisable to say that love should be expressed with the acceptable standard of a given culture. True love is not harmful, it does not hurt.
“We can also take this further to the love for our nation, especially this period that we are going to elect our leaders. We should all demonstrate our love for Nigeria through good conducts.” But what is the origin of Val Day celebration? The General Overseer of Wordbased Assembly, Bishop Humphrey Erumaka, explained that Valentines Day has multiple stories behind it. “The most popular story has to do with a priest who was jailed because he was wedding people, when the reigning Roman Emperor of his time, Emperor Constantine, decreed that nobody should marry because if you marry, you have one year leave to go to war. You don’t go to war if you are married for one year so that you can be with your wife,” Erumaka explained. He continued: “So a lot of young men who didn’t want to go to war were getting married. In spite of the Emperor’s ban on marriages, Valentine, the priest, was wedding the reluctant young men, secretly.” Incidentally, Emperor Constantine discovered the priest’s nocturnal role and jailed him.
“But and right there in jail, the jailer’s daughter fell in love with Valentine. He became close to the jailer’s daughter who was bringing him food, things and he was writing her lovely letters,” Bishop Erumaka narrated.
The Christian leader therefore insisted that, Valentine is all about the sacrifices people make for love. “It has come to stay; I think it’s a time that even Christians or the church should reflect this in society. “We should use it as a time for being a blessing to one another just as Christmas has become. It’s time to show love to humanity,” he said.
According to him, Val’s Day is not a day of dating, clubbing or a day to create a paradise of immorality. “Everything ceremonial is capable of abuse, there are people no matter what you say will do the wrong things just like Christmas. The core thing is for those who know the right thing to know what love stands for. Love does not accommodate evil; love is not selfish; a whole lot of people use it for selfish reasons. “Even some use it to commit immorality, even rape innocent people and all that, in the name of partying. All those things are wrong but it is what usually happens when anything becomes a ceremony abuse becomes inevitable,” he stressed. Erumaka finds a sole mate in Bishop Isaac Idahosa of Illumination Assembly. “The Bible says: ‘Do not conform to this world but be you transformed by the renewing of your mind -Romans 12: 1and 2, I beseech therefore brethren by the mercies that you present your bodies…, ‘So people should not capitalizing on Val Day celebration to build on immorality on the day meant for sharing the love of Christ abroad. It is a day of mutual spreading of agape love. It is not a day to defile beds and the word of God,” Idahosa maintained. He added: “We should celebrate love within the context of the word of God. For those who think it should be celebrated within the context of a given culture, they should understand that the best culture is the culture.” Erumaka, however, noted that Valentine Day celebration is neither a Christian nor a Muslim program. “But ultimately for me as a Christian and as a preacher, the Bible says we should pray for those in authority, so that there would be room for people to be saved, for people to come to the knowledge of the truth. We’re praying for those in authority to create a situation for the gospel to prosper. To be a Christian is not who will win the election or gives more money, the best road and more facility, but who under his administration the gospel would have its free course, that’s that’s how we should be thinking,” Bishop Erumaka said.