Only in six persons abusing substances get help, hence the focus on preventing drug abuse. In this report, SEGUN OGUNBO, ESTHER UMOFIA and IJEOMA OKEKE highlight factors driving victims of drug abuse to seek new substances  In Nigeria today one of the common societal ills that is very rampant but yet to be curbed is the misuse of drugs, which many youths indulge in.  Drug abuse is taking drugs without doctor’s prescription and counselling. These misuse and abuse often result in various health challenges. Among drugs that are commonly misused and or abused in this environment are alcohol, caffeine, cannabis, diethylamide, inhalants, opioids, sedative, stimulants, tramadol, codeine, tobacco, among others.  Relating why he engages in drugs, John said, “I indulge in drugs when people offend me in other to forget the problem at hand. Drug boosts my morale.” For example, if someone offends me, the drug makes me get set to do and undo and especially to attack. I can do anything without hesitation.”
Speaking further, John said, “When I was in primary school, my dad influenced me to take beer, but later, I started taking gin, whisky, beer and even smoking cigarette.  “My dad usually gave me beer to drink then but now I buy them with my money. Moreover, now I can’t do without consuming alcoholic drinks because if I don’t take the drinks, I won’t be happy.  “Based on consumption of this alcohol, I am happy and satisfied. Most people are being influenced to take alcohol by their friends but I was influenced by my dad.  “The first time I smoked cannabis, I believe that God was with me because some people took it for the first time and run mad but the first time I took it, it was as if I was on top of the world.  “I couldn’t make a move; I did not get myself for a while. So, I slept off. When I woke up, I started taking the cannabis little by little till I blended with it.”  Similarly, relating his experience on abusing drugs, Yusuf, an artisan told the New Telegraph that codeine was a cough medicine, but I drink three bottles of the cough syrup with codeine. I take everything at once which makes it an abuse of the drug. “When I take a whole sachet of paracetamol containing 12 tablets, it affects me negatively.  “Similarly, the intake of codeine dulls my body and makes me to over sleep. It weakens me and makes young guys get old at early age. I take codeine too but I prefer taking whisky, gin or beer.”  Concerning those that sniff rubber to get high, Thompson, a secondary school dropout, that sells fruits in Berger said the rubber is called gum. He said the impact of the rubber was from a chemical that is found in kegs. ‘When I sniff the rubber, I get high.”  Many young people inhale the vapours from these various sources in search of quick intoxication. Apart from inhaling steam from pit latrines to get high, products such as nail polish remover, lighter fluid, spray paints, deodorant and hair products, that produce chemical vapours can similarly be inhaled to get high.
Commenting on the increasing trend of new substances that are being abused daily both locally and interna  Apart from the conventional drugs namely cocaine, heroin, cannabis etc, he noted that the growing threats of new psychoactive substances demand urgent attention of governments and world leaders. Quoting from the 2017 International Narcotics Control Board’s (INCB) reports which was launched in March 2018, Abdullah stated that Member States had reported 796 new substances, a steady increase from the 739 substances reported the previous year. “Countries are daily confronted with new substances of abuse that are not under international control but are potentially addictive,” he added.  Furthermore, the chairman of NDLEA said of importance was the emergence of clandestine Methamphetamine Laboratories in some countries including Nigeria where between 2011 and 2018, the NDLEA had discovered 15 of such laboratories in three Nigerian states. “This development is worrisome as high risk sexual practices linked with the use of stimulant drugs (e.g. amphetamine-type substances, cocaine and new psychoactive substances) among sub-groups of key populations is also indicated in the spread of HIV in addition to injective drug use.”  Reacting in similar vein to the development, a consultant Psychiatrist, Dr. Grace Ijarogbe confirmed that young persons truly inhale these stench and fumes from rubbers to very dirty pungent fume from toilets. “What they are using is the ammoniacal content of those fumes because it has some stimulatory effects, but for them to get anything significant, they have to inhale it for a long time and inhale a lot of it. On how many hours one could spend doing that before becoming intoxicated depends on the body structure of an affected person, she said.  But what exactly would be the effect of going inside a dirty gutter or, being near a dirty toilet to inhale fume, Ijarogbe said, “definitely there would be other germs and other things to be inhaled alongside the steam and whatever is inhaled is going into the lungs.
“So, they also face the risk of being exposed to some other diseases considering that some toilets, though being clean are aerosoled.”  Consequently, for a boy or girl going in there to put their noses into the pit laterines to inhale could take in a lot of such aerosol consciously or unconsciously into the lungs.
“There will be irritations to the airways, the throat down to the bronchi can come down with irritation, bronchitis and cough. They can also come down with other infections because they are exposed.”  Above all, the consultant psychiatrist disclosed that the mental health effect of these inhalants on health was quite significant because it was an abnormal behaviour. These persons are either driven by craving or desire to do what they are doing. “Sitting inside a gutter or in a toilet to inhale is no longer a normal behaviour. The abnormal behaviour that is driving that desire is a mental health problem because these persons must be addicted to one thing or the other and that is why they have need for those substances.  She stressed that the behaviour of these youths demonstrates that either that they have low energy drive and they think the inhalant will give them energy or they have low self-esteem and believe that it will make them better able to cope with some issues in their lives.
Furthermore, Ijarogbe noted that there could be other underlying fundamental problems which those individuals have and such persons need help.  While admitting that there were too many substances of abuse in communities including lizard dung, the Founder/Executive Director of Global Initiative on Substance Abuse (GISA), Dr. Martin Agwogie blamed this abnormal behaviour on traumatic incidents that might have happened in the lives of those abusing substances, adding that prevention was key to tackling drug abuse.  Citing some examples of what could lead to abuse of substances, Agwogie said, “We have instances where men sleep with their daughters or mothers sleep with their sons. Whether you like it or not, those children that were abuse have been subjected to some trauma and that traumatic experience is something that the child will grow with: depression could set in and not being assertive could develop leading to antisocial behaviour.
He said, “These are some of the things that add to some genetic vulnerability that make the child to be at risk if substance use.  Where the parents are not there to provide parental guidance, leaving the children at the mercy of peers may pave way for them getting the wrong information from their peers.
“In an environment where you have drugs virtually everywhere,” Agwogie said the children grow up in that environment and see it a norm.  On the way out, he advised that those that were already using drugs should seek professional help. Beyond going to schools to sensitise youths on this issue, you may not reach as many people as you would ordinarily have reached.
The specialist on substance abuse said when an entire class of young persons were subjected to some kind of analysis: one on one interaction and/or questionnaires, the professionals would be able to segregate those that were at high risk from those that were at low risk and those at high risk would be attended to based on the level of risk that they possess.   According to a recent research, cases of drug misuse have shot through the roof as over 500,000 bottles of codeine were consumed. FAVOUR NWANZE and VICTORIA NONIKE report the rising rate of substance misuse among the youths   Exhausted and bent over his laptop, Mr. Micheal Ogunbiyi racks his brain… In "Sunday Extra" Poverty as driver of substance abuse   The upsurge in abuse and illicit trafficking of drug in the country is posing heinous threat to human lives, national development and security, writes AKEEM NAFIU   Introduction About 33 years after Messrs Batholomew Owoh (26), Bernard Ogedegbe (29) and Akanni Lawal Ojuolape… In "Insight" Wife of the Lagos State Governor, Mrs Bolanle Ambode has urged the new graduates of the International Centre for Credentialing and Education of Addiction Professional (ICCE) to use the acquired knowledge to curb drug addiction among Nigerians, especially the youths. Making the call at the Certificate Presentation Ceremony/ launch… In "Health"