It was another auspicious occasion on Thursday when Kia Motors fulfilled its promise of presenting a brand new car to the winner of the 10km race of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon. Priscilla Hart emerged winner in the female category of the race while it was Olufunmi Abdullateef who won the male category. Speaking during the presentation, the Vice President, Kia Nigeria, Olu Tikolo, said the company is associated with youth development as he congratulated the winners for their doggedness during the race. “People are here to see us fulfil our promises to reward the winners with a new car,” he said. “Kia Motors is a company associated with youth development and I want to use this moment to congratulate the winners. This is an avenue for others to start preparing to become winners in the next edition.” Tikolo used the opportunity to announce the extension of the company’s sponsorship of the race for the next five years. While also congratulating the winners, the chairman, Lagos State sports Commission, Kweku Tandoh, commended Kia Motors for supporting the race as he called on other corporate bodies to come on board and support the marathon. Access Bank was represented at the presentation by Events and Sponsorships manager of the bank, Oge Nwachukwu, who also applauded the winners for emerging top at the race. The organisers of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon has officially confirmed introduction a 10km race during next year's edition of the event. Two cars donated by GAC Motors have also been confirmed as the top prizes up for grabs by the winners of the Men’s and Women’s 10km races.… In "Sports" …as Ambode flags off race   After several months of counting down, all is now set for the 4th edition of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon which will be taking place today, February 2nd. On Friday at the Sheraton Hotel in Ikeja, a press conference was held to reiterate… In "News" It was another huge boost for the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon on Thursday after the new leading automobile company in Nigeria, GAC Motors, announced sponsorship deal worth N100m in kind for the competition. The MD/CEO of Nilayo Sports Management Ltd, the consultant company for the race, Bukola Olopade, said… In "Sports"