…says, ‘I defeated ex-gov with prayers, people’s support’  The Senator-elect for Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District, Engr. Chris Ekpenyong, yesterday declared  that money, federal might, intimidation and violence failed to deliver for former Governor Godswill Akpabio in the just concluded senatorial election. Ekpenyong, a former Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State and candidate    of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), defeated Akpabio of the All Progressives Congress (APC) with a wide margin.
Ekpenyong polled 118,215 votes to defeat Senator Akpabio of who polled 83,158 votes. He, however, attributed his triumph to prayers and support of the people of his senatorial district. Speaking in an exclusive interview with New Telegraph, Ekpenyong pointed out that money, federal might, intimidation and violence failed to deliver for Akpabio in the senatorial polls. The Senator-elect stated that he knew he would defeat the former governor moments he was drafted into the race by the PDP after Akpabio’s defection to APC. Ekpenyong, who noted that he had given adequate support to Akpabio in the past, urged his opponent to reciprocate the gesture and cooperate with him towards lifting the fortunes of people of his senatorial district. He said: “In 2007 when I laboured for power shift to our senatorial district, Akpabio contested and won as governor and I supported him. When he was going for second term, he took me to then President Jonathan and I knelt down and begged Jonathan to allow him contest a second term as governor. I didn’t do it for a fee, but showed humility in service. “In 2015, Akpabio went to Senate, I supported him. Even in 2018 when he declared for re-election, I supported him wholeheartedly until he left PDP for APC and the PDP fielded me to contest against him. It is just a change of baton. “Akpabio should come back and work with me. His name is Godswill and God’s will have been done for the people of our senatorial district. My name is Christopher and I am a cross bearer, I bear the cross of my people.”
Ekpenyong, who accused Akpabio of playing God, recalled how the former governor repeatedly criticised President Muhammadu Buhari in the past. He faulted the performance of the former governor while in office, saying there were no policy on agriculture, education, social welfare and health, but “people were just clapping hands.”
His words: “God gives power and God takes power. I am just an instrument in the hand of God and in the hand of the people who just need to make change and the change came using me as an instrument. “I campaigned and went to 108 wards. I campaigned within 1,124 units that constitute my senatorial district and they saw the sincerity in me. And above all, I never have interest in contesting, I was called by the people to come and represent them in the election. “They cannot call me out and fail me, so they have confidence in me even with the amount that he put in. He offered people $200,000; where did he get that? Is it not from the treasury of our state? He offered and put pressure on INEC to change the result sheet, but the man said no. I thank God because the people have spoken and they spoke very well. “He was rejected. Instead of him to call me and say my senior brother, I have conceded, now he is saying that it was a mistake. Instead of him to behave like a real democrat like Senate President Bukola Saraki has done in Kwara. “The people know that they have someone that can serve them better. He cannot act like God, and he is acting God. He told the world that he would take Akwa Ibom to another party. Even though we have given part of our votes to Mr. President, this was our wish. “If you look at this election compared to 2015, you will remember that we never give President Buhari any opportunity here. Then, he claimed the man was illiterate, but today he is relating and dining with the man that is illiterate. He said the man was interfering with the budget, but today he is mingling with the same man just because he has gotten so much wealth from the government resources and he wants to save himself. “The money failed (him). He brought in everything; he masterminded and brought in the GOC of Army in Port Harcourt. He brought all the Army, Police to the state and he tried to nail people, but then, I stood firm and we won the election. He tried to manipulate the election through money, but God did not give him way to do that. “I told him face to face that he can’t rig this election and the power of God showed that to him with all that he did, he lost. God showed him His will. No matter how powerful he may think he is or his resources, God showed him he is more powerful. You must respect God and honour him. “I won him in eight local government areas out of the 10. I won classically, the results are very clear. I thank God that the conduct of election was done in accordance with the state standard. And then we have a man of integrity as the REC in the state.” Uyo, capital of Akwa Ibom State, was yesterday agog as youths, women and supporters as well as members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) trooped to the streets, singing and dancing following announcement of the election results of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district by the Independent National Electoral Commission… In "News" •3 dep govs, ex-dep govs elected •Akume, Akpabio, Uduaghan, Dankwambo, others lose bid   Kalu, Amosun, Yari, Okorocha,     An unprecedented 17 outgoing and former governors have won senatorial seats in the ongoing general elections. They are among the 23, who contested last weekend’s National Assembly elections. The outgoing… In "Politics" ●El-rufai’s deputy loses to PDP   ●APC takes control of N’Assembly   It was dashed hope for two outgoing governors, who contested last weekend’s senatorial election as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, declared more results of the senatorial election.   They governors are Ibrahim Dankwambo (Gombe) and Abiola… In "Politics"