Three members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday lost their lives when their car crashed at the FESTAC Town area of Lagos State during a campaign rally for the party’s senatorial candidate. The crash occurred about 2.30p.m., during the campaign for the APC senatorial candidate for Lagos West, Solomon Olamilekan Adeola aka Yayi. The three victims, who were in the convoy of the candidate, were said to have died at the hospital where they were rushed to after the crash. The convoy was said to have left the campaign ground, when the sport utility vehicle (SUV) conveying the victims was trying to catch up with the train when the crash occurred. A witness described the incident as unfortunate. The witness said Yayi and other contestants had to postpone their visits to other places. He said: “Some of us were in the convoy of the senator and we had gone ahead of other supporters when a call came across to us that some of our colleagues had been involved in a car crash. “The medical team and the policemen attached to the senator’s convoy rushed back to the scene and rescued the victims. Unfortunately, they were confirmed dead at the hospital where they were rushed to for medical attention. “The accident affected the senator a lot, to the extent that he cancelled activities for the day. It was unfortunate for us in the Yayi group.” The Media Adviser to the senator, Mr. Kayode Odunaro, said Yayi was mourning the three supporters who died in the motor accident during the campaign tour of Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area and Oriade Local Council Development Area. The SUV somersaulted while trying to join the campaign convoy of the senator carrying some supporters of Hon. Riskat Adegeye, the APC House of Representatives candidate for Amuwo Odofin Federal Constituency. Odunaro said Adeola prayed for the repose of the souls of the departed and prayed for the families of the deceased to have the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), CSP Chike Oti, confirmed the incident. He said: “A Toyota Tundra pick-up van with registration number FST 01 LG escort vehicle conveying some persons for the campaign rally lost control and summersaulted. Shittima Bulus, Irekeife Evwibovwe and Alex died in the crash. The PPRO said seven people were injured. He identified them as Fatope Saheed, Adio Kazeem, Jamiu Ajiboluwa, Arowolo Ogundairo, Chinelo Ofegbu, Wasiu Sodiq and Adebayo Adeleke. Those who sustained injuries were taken to Amuwo Odofin Local Government hospital, while those who died were deposited at the mortuary of the Isolo General Hospital.