Tejumola Mafimisebi obtained her LL.B from Babcock University, in Ilisan-Remo, Ogun State. Tejumola, who was called to Bar in 2017 shares her post-call experience, challenges, pupilage and young lawyers’ welfare, among others. JOHN CHIKEZIE reports  Background She was called to Bar on 12th December, 2017 after obtaining her LL.B from Babcock University, a Seventh-Day Adventist institution in Ogun state. Tejumola Mafimisebi, a product of the university’s secondary school told New Telegraph this way: “I am Tejumola Mafimisebi from Ode Ugbo in Ilaje local government area of Ondo State. I attended the famous Mayflower Junior School, Ikenne Ogun state after which I proceeded to Babcock University High School and the university where I obtained a Bachelor degree in Law in 2016. I was admitted to the Nigerian Law School (Lagos Campus) same year and was called to Bar on 12th of December 2017. Choice of career Back then in secondary school, calculation was my worst fear (I still hate it), so sciences was a no go area for me. I chose law because it was the most fancied course in the Art class and it had minimal calculation. Fast forward to filling of JAMB form, my subconscious already absolved it and I had developed a likeness for it. The journey so far So far, it’s being a perfect blend of good and bad. There are days when I feel fulfilled as a lawyer. This happens mostly when we secure a conviction against a criminal, the satisfaction that comes with being a part of that process is priceless. I served with the Department of Public Prosecution of Plateau State Ministry of Justice, where such feelings occurred a lot. Aside, there are times when I am at the crossroads, not knowing if I should pursue a career in law or venture into something else, especially when I consider the welfare of young lawyers. But so far, I think my passion for law has being a driving force. Marrying a lawyer? I don’t mind marrying a lawyer as long as he is hardworking, which is one of my criterion. Future ambition More than becoming a successful lawyer,want to have an impact in the world around me and to speak for those without a voice. Judiciary’s unusual happenings I experienced one during my service year in Plateau state. There was a particular criminal matter slated for judgement and the accused person was on bail, and judgement was finally delivered. The accused was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. However, we were about leaving the court’s premises after the proceedings when an orderly attached to the court walked up to us and demanded a mobilization fee to take the convict to prison since the prison officials didn’t bring inmates to court that day. My boss then replied he didn’t have such money and told the police officer to call the prison authorities to come for the convict. Shockingly, the officer told us that we have an option of taking the convict in our car to the prison. I was dumbfounded. How can an unarmed civilian drive a convicted criminal to prison without any escort? And to even think that the police officer saw it as ‘a no big deal’ issue was so weird. The officer told us that this is how it’s done on days when prison officers don’t come to court. Child marriage, rampant cases of rape and defilement Child marriage is totally wrong and I am against it. It’s never in the best interest of a child and a lot of times the children are exposed to health hazards such as VVF (Vevisco Vaginal Fistula) and with the highest number of cases in Nigeria, cervical cancer, sexually transmitted diseases and what not. I think a lot more needs to be done in the area of sensitization as most parents that marry their kids off are poor illiterates, who are probably products of such marriages. Also the punishment for the crime isn’t commensurate; there is the need for an amendment in that area. Law practice Well, I think the entire legal system needs to be refashioned. This would have a positive effect on the legal profession itself. Personally, the welfare of young lawyers, generally, I think something should be done to ensure fair remuneration of young lawyers by its governing body. Secondly, the issue of former prison officials convicted for a crime, made to serve jail sentence in the same prison they had earlier stationed. I am yet to have a full grasp of how the prisons work, but I know that the issue of jurisdiction comes to play; especially when one is tried in the jurisdiction the crime was committed. I was privileged to attend a briefing with my boss who at the time was also the lawyer to Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development. It was a case of a prison warder who had raped a minor who got pregnant, then, the family of the minor found out, rather than report the matter, met the prison warder who agreed to marry the girl. The prison warder abducted the girl in question and took her for abortion that resulted in complications. This was when the family eventually brought the case to the police. I sat there thinking if justice can ever be done in this particular case, even if the guy is sentenced to life imprisonment, considering the fact that he would serve the jail term in his work station, where his former colleagues would most likely give him preferential treatment. Beyond preferential treatment, in such instance, one of the purposes of criminal law which is deterrent has already being defeated amongst prison officers. I think a prison officer should be made to serve his jail term in an entirely different jurisdiction. For instance, a prison officer in the North should serve their jail term in the East. Suzzette Kelechi Amanze began her law programme shortly after she switched over from International law to law upon her admission to Babcock University, Ogun state. She told JOHN CHIKEZIE her foray into wig and gown profession   Background I am Suzzette Kelechi Amanze. I am from Ezinihitte local government area… In "Law" Blessing Nwaukwa, an indigene of Umuisiukwu, Ugaa Autonomous Community, Isiala Ngwa North Local Government Area in Abia state obtained her LL.B from Igbinedion University, Okada, in Edo State. Nwaukwa was called to Bar on 12th November, 2016. She tells JOHN CHIKEZIE how her foray into legal profession began   Background… In "Law" Eguono Agada obtained her LL.B about three years ago from the University of Benin and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2016. She told JOHN CHIKEZIE her passion for the ‘noble’ profession     She is a 24-year-old lawyer. Her early education began some decades ago from Maryland Convent… In "Law"