The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as provocative, the arrest of its senatorial candidate for Kwara South, Senator Rufai Ibrahim and other members of the party, on framed-up charges, on the eve of a crucial election, in which he is a lead contender. The party in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, condemned the police resort to
the brutality of the opposition members on flimsy charges. PDP noted that such would directly pitch security agents against the people in a manner that might spark off violent resistance with regrettable consequences. It accused the police of acting the script of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in its plan to rig the polls through force and intimidation. “Nigerians will recall our vehement protest against the deployment of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s lackey, CP Kayode Egbetokun, as Kwara state Commissioner of Police, wherein we alerted of plots by the APC to use him to incite the people, cause pandemonium and pave the way for outright rigging in favour of President Buhari and all other candidates on the platform of APC,” the statement added. It warned the APC that nobody has the monopoly of show of strength, and urged PDP members in Kwara and in any other state to be law-abiding but not allow themselves to be subjugated, particularly in this critical electoral process. “In this regard, our members should immediately activate their individual and collective defence mechanisms by using every legitimate means available, to resist the aggression of the APC and their compromised security agents as well as dismantle their rigging machineries. “We know that the plan of the APC is to stop our members from accessing their polling centers. “Our members should deploy all legitimate means, including lawful self-preservation strategies and tactical maneuvers to beat the aggressions, arrive at their respective polling centers and exercise their voting rights accordingly,” the party said. It called on the Inspector General of Police to immediately call CP Kayode Egbetokun to order. “We also call on lovers of democracy all over the world to rise in condemnation of this wicked harassment and arrest of our members ahead of a crucial election,” PDP demanded. At least two people were killed during a violent clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ojoku, Oyun local government area of Kwara state. The police have also confirmed the arrest of six suspects over the incident which occurred on Monday evening… In "News" At least two people were killed during a clash between supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) at Ojoku in Oyun Local Government Area of Kwara State. The police said they had arrested six people in connection with the incident which occurred on Monday… In "Metro and Crime" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to pull out of the peace accord signed by political parties and their candidates, blaming it on some actions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its leaders, which the opposition considered inimical to the peaceful conduct of the election. The party also… In "News"