The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is arm-twisting the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to rig Saturday’s presidential election.  The party further alleged that INEC has eventually bowed to pressure by the APC to replace electoral officers with APC agents.  PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, at a press conference yesterday said the APC has launched a more ferocious plot with INEC and security agencies to ambush the rescheduled elections and foist President Muhammadu Buhari on Nigerians.  “Since the postponement, the Buhari presidency and APC have been breathing down on the Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, in a desperate and feverish bid to consolidate their control of the operations of the commission and execute its rigging plot,” Ologbondiyan stated.  He alleged that at a meeting held in presidency/APC situation room in the Presidential Villa on Tuesday night, which was attended by the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; the Managing Director of Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala-Usman, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mustapha Boss, among others, Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) were directed to issue result sheets to APC agents to falsify and declare results in favour of the APC.  “Intelligence at our disposal reveals that the INEC Chairman has succumbed to back channel bullying by the Buhari presidency and APC to accede to their demand to replace Electoral Officers (EOs) in various critical states with APC agents who will vehemently execute President Buhari’s rigging plans in the February 23, Presidential election.  “Also, our party has full details of how the Department of State Services (DSS) has been interfering with operations of critical departments of INEC, including the ICT department, to do APC bidding.  “The PDP also has details of the meeting last night by President Buhari, some APC northern governors and Service Chiefs on Tuesday night, whereupon pressure was mounted on the Service Chiefs in connection with the APC rigging plans,” he stated.  The PDP spokesperson recalled that the party had alerted on the plot to give the INEC Chairman the ‘Onnoghen’s treatment’ unless he accepts a list of APC members and agents and post them to serve as EOs in various states of the country.  He added that these APC EOs have been briefed to ensure the diversion of sensitive electoral materials from designated polling centres, delay the accreditation process, so as to frustrate voters’ enthusiasm, compromise the collation process to allocate and announce fictitious results for President Buhari and muddle up the process to pave way for result cancellation where it becomes impossible to rig for President Buhari.  According to him, the shoot-on-sight order issued by President Buhari was designed to clampdown on Nigerians who would want to confront and stop the APC from executing its rigging plots on the day of election.
Ologbondiyan, however, assured that PDP and Nigerians would resist the attempt to rig the elections.  “Nigerians have made huge sacrifices for a free, fair, credible and transparent election to vote out President Buhari on Saturday. They will, as such, spare no thought in ensuring that anybody recruited by the enemies of democracy to rig the election will be resisted,” he stated.