The China Cultural Centre in Nigeria, last Saturday, hosted Chinese families, friends of China and the diplomatic community to a cultural festival to mark the start of the Lunar New Year in China. ONWUKA NZESH I reports  It was a huge, colourful carnival, featuring music, dances and other cultural displays. The hosts were the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China, the China Cultural Centre, Abuja and the China Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria. The guests included Chinese, Nigerians and other nationals who had been invited to witness the unique culture of the most populous nation on earth.  Among the dignitaries at the event were the Chinese Ambassador in Nigeria, Mr Zhou Pingjian; Director General, National Council for Arts and Culture( NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe; Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Deaconess Grace Gekpe as well as Mrs Ifunanya Uzor Kalu, wife of Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, former Governor of Abia State.  The Spring Festival Temple Fair also featured a display of Chinese cuisines and delicacies. Some of the high points of the event were the Lion Dance, a legendary Chinese performance depicting strength and the Atilogu Acrobatic displays presented by the Anambra State Cultural Troupe.  Apart from songs and dances, there were also pictorial exhibitions and films showcasing not only the rich cultural heritage of the Chinese people but the socioeconomic transformation which the People’s Republic of China had undergone over the last seventy (70 ) years. The Chinese Ambassador in Nigeria, Mr Zhou Pingjian, seized  the platform to advance his diplomatic responsibilities.  In a chat with journalists on the sidelines of the carnival, he disclosed that the Spring Festival, which actually falls on February 5( today), marks the start of the Lunar New Year in China. Pingjian described it as the most important traditional festival for the Chinese people and an occasion for family reunion.  He expressed delight at the crowd of guests who had come to celebrate with the Chinese people, saying that Nigeria has always been a home away from home for the Chinese people. “We Chinese feel very much at home here in Nigeria. This is a family reunion for the Chinese people in Nigeria.  It is an opportunity for them to interact among themselves and also with their Nigerian friends. Nigerian culture is very rich and unique. Both China and Nigeria have ancient cultures that are very unique. So, as you can see, it is very important for people of different countries to appreciate each other’s culture, respect each other’s culture and on that basis maintain good bilateral relations,” he said.  The Chinese envoy recalled that China and Nigeria have had a very fruitful relationship which has brought a lot of benefits to the peoples of both countries. He disclosed that on February 10, both countries will roll out the drums to celebrate the 48th Anniversary of China/Nigeria bilateral relations. “Both China and Nigeria are major developing countries of great influence in the world.  Since the establishment of diplomatic ties in 1971 and strategic partnership in 2005, the all-round, wideranging and high quality bilateral cooperation has been a pacesetter for China-Africa cooperation, bringing tangible benefits to our two peoples. “We are very glad to note that through the joint efforts of both sides in recent years, the China- Nigeria political mutual trust has been enhanced significantly and the mutually beneficial cooperation has yielded fruitful results with broad prospects.  “China-Nigeria relations are now at their best time in history. Last year, the Forum on Africa China Cooperation (FOCAC ) Beijin Summit was held and President Muhammadu Buhari and President Xi Jinping reached important consensus on how we can further deepen our bilateral ties,” he said.  As a follow up to that conference, Pingjian said, China and Nigeria have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), an initiative that promises to further the cause of infrastructural development in developing countries.  This initiative, he said, was the brainchild of China but would be of benefit to the entire world. “China adheres to the fundamental national policy of opening up and pursuing development with its doors wide open. China will actively promote international cooperation through the BRI. In  doing so, we hope to achieve policy, infrastructure, trade, financial and people -to-people connectivity and thus build a new platform for international cooperation and shared development.  “We are committed to implementing the benefits of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) with Nigeria. We are also committed to implementing the eight major cooperation initiatives between China and Nigeria.  We believe that if it is infrastructural development, investment, industrialisation and cultural exchange, together we can do even more. We’re very confident,” he said. Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture(NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, described China as one of the countries at the forefront of cultural exchange with Nigeria over the years.  “We’ve been doing this with the Chinese government for quite a long time and this is an expression of saying that Nigeria and China have some things in common to exchange. “Our cultural troupe is sending a message to the Chinese people and the Chinese people are sending a message back to us. It’s a fantastic approach to cultural exchange and development from the two countries.  “Today, I can tell you that China is number one country among other embassies in Nigeria in terms of cultural content . They have been able to showcase the contents  of their culture to us. The way forward is for Nigeria to build on this cultural relationship, so that this cultural exhibition will be bigger and better in the coming years,” Runsewe said. Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Grace Gekpe, described culture as a very diverse aspect of life.  She said that the Chinese carnival was a platform to showcase Nigerian culture while enjoying the Chinese Cultural performances. “It’s a beautiful platform. The creative industry is one area that engages a lot of youths and this cultural show contributes to the economy of each country.  It is a way of empowering our youths. “It is not only dances that you have here; there are so many arts and crafts that will be on display It is a way of empowering our young people, empowering our women. As these things are showcased, a lot of people will buy the art works and the food. As people buy, people are making money and growing the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). So, it will impact positively on the economy of both countries,” she said.