The rate of agitation by retirees over management of their benefits has waned over time due to gradual understanding of the workings of new pension scheme. There is, however, need to consolidate on its efficacy, as it benefits the system. SUNDAY OJEME reports  In the current year, a lot of people, as a matter of tradition, are expected to officially leave their job to face the challenges of retirement. Fortunately, majority in this group of retirees fall into the new pension scheme arrangement, which enabled them to contribute their percentage split and the one from their employers to their choice Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs). As they move to earn the benefits, it is expedient for them to understand the workings of the system, as ignorance in this respect had cast doubt on the efficacy of the scheme in the past. However, as a matter of tradition, the level of complaints surrounding the scheme with regard to withdrawal and benefit management has gradually waned over time. This is only attributable to sustained awareness campaign by the industry stakeholders. As a result of the initial mix up between the Defined Benefit Scheme (old and non-contributory) and the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), it was difficult for some of the retirees to understand the new process of managing their benefits. At the height of the confusion, PFAs faced an uphill task from retirees, who consistently demanded their entire benefits, whereas, according to the new rule, part of it is supposed to be managed for the retiree under the Programmed Withdrawal by the PFAs or Life Annuity Programme by life insurance companies. Ignorance The failure of most retirees to fully comprehend the workings despite aggressive education by the regulator, National Penson Commission (PenCom), compounded the situation. According to PenCom, limited public awareness of the workings of the new scheme, different interpretation of some provisions of the Act by retirees, comparison of benefits under the old and new scheme by retirees, benefits by colleagues on similar position and different variables/ data as well as the delay in payment of Accrued Rights, caused delay in processing retirement benefits as and when due, are some of the challenges working against the system. Objective/procedure The objective of Pension Reform Act (Section 1, PRA 2014) shows, “the CPS seeks to, among others, ensure that every worker receives his retirement benefits as and when due. However, retirement benefits administration is the last phase of the process/activities put in place to achieve the above objectives of the pension reform. The two modes of benefit administration under CPS are Programmed Withdrawal and the purchase of Retiree Life Annuity. Besides, there are also benefits for the beneficiaries of a deceased contributor/retiree. According to the arrangement, there are two windows available in the management of benefits in this regard. They are Programmed Withdrawal, managed by the PFAs or Life Annuity, which is handled by Life insurance providers. The retiree is also entitled to a lump sum payment before PW or Annuity just as an en-bloc payment of benefits could also be effected in cases of deceased or missing persons. A section of the Act also permits the retiree to retain in his RSA, an amount that will procure at least a monthly pension or annuity of (not less than 50 per cent of his last pay) (– with extant guidelines). The balance may be taken as lump-sum. Persons who lost their jobs and could not secure employment within four months can access up to 25 per cent of RSA balance. This also applies in cases of mental or physical infirmity/incapacity as well as medically unfit retirees. In the case of death, the benefits (Group Life Insurance) are no longer paid into RSAs but are to be paid by an underwriter to a named beneficiary in line with Section 57 of the Insurance Act – S. 8 (1). The evidence required in this regard includes a valid Will admitted to Probate – (Subject to State Estate Laws), Letter of Administration confirming the beneficiaries, with the approval of the Commission, release the amount in the RSA to personal representatives of the deceased, Order of a Court of competent jurisdiction, in accordance with the terms of the Will or the personal law of the deceased employee. The employers must also report death/missing employees to the PFA and PenCom as missing employees under S. 9 are to be treated as death under S. 8 of the PRA 2014. He must also have a representative on the Board of Enquiry constituted in the case of missing employee or retirement of an employee on medical ground. Documentation For a retiree to access his account (RSA) easily, he must have presented documents including one notifying his PFA six months ahead of retirement. Other documents include official notice/acceptance of retirement from the employer, last pay slip as evidence of annual total emolument and last grade level, recent passport photograph, any other evidence of ATE, quotation from an insurance company for the purpose of annuity product, if desired, bank account details and contact address after retirement. It also includes Standard Notice of Retirement, which is a form where the important information of the RSA holder who wants to access his benefits are listed by his PFA. This form contains the name of the retiree, age, gender, date of birth, date of retirement, ATE, RSA balance, detail of benefits to be paid, employer’s detail, retiree’s contact etc. The Programmed Withdrawal Agreement s also necessary. It is a document issued by the PFA for a retiree who wants to access his retirement benefits through programmed withdrawal option to reflect his details. The amount to be reflected includes RSA balance, lumpsum, monthly pension and the form must be properly signed by the retiree. The Provisional Annuity Agreement is a provisional agreement document issued by an insurance company to reflect the details of the retiree who wants to access his retirement benefits through annuity option. The agreed terms and amounts are to be stated in the document such as the amount to be transferred to the insurance company as premium, annuity amount, lumpsum and guarantee term. It should be signed by the insurance company and the retiree. Last line To say the least, the new pension scheme has turned out to be the best so far for the country, as the arrangement has made it easier not just for the retirees to have access to their funds but also decide the choice of management and investment. To forestall any form of anxiety on their part, it is also important for the PFAs to brief them on the management of their benefits even before they retire.