 The Senator representing Benue North West in the  National Assembly, George Akume has accused Governor Samuel Ortom of arming militia in Benue State to rig the forthcoming general elections.  But the governor alleged   that his estranged political godfather wants to use federal might to militarise the state in  order to subvert the will of the electorate. Akume, who disclosed this during the Presidential campaign rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, yesterday, said the youth being armed belong to a security outfit known as Livestock Guards. According to Akume, the youth working in the outfit have been allegedly equipped with assorted weapons such as AK47.  “Benue yearns for free and fair elections, but what we have as our major problem in Benue State is the complete militarization of the state by the government.  “They have militia, the most notorious is Livestock Guards; they carry assorted weapons, they carry AK 47. “They have been killing. Last Friday, we were on our way for a rally in the headquarters of the governor’s local government in Gbajimba and as we got close, they started firing on us.  One person was killed, many were injured,” he said. The former governor said that “Nobody is talking about federal might, we are fully prepared for the elections and we want security to come and do our elections.” In a swift reaction to the allegation, Ortom said it is his estranged political godfather, Akume, who is responsible for the arming of youths in the state.  The governor explained that the senator has engaged in unwholesome act playing tricks on President Muhammadu Buhari so that the APC will have a leeway to scuttle the entire electoral process. Ortom noted that Akume only wants to give him a bad name before hanging him. According to the governor, the allegations were baseless and completely false.  “Have you ever seen any Livestock Guard with one weapon? It is Akume that is arming people. “You know, I know the trick he is trying to play. He is playing Mr. President so that they will allow him the opportunity to have security men to come and rig the election. “That is all that he is doing and you heard what Mr. President said in reply to his demand that he will supply security to ensure a free and fair election,” Ortom said.  The governor accused his estranged political godfather that his plan was to use federal might to rig the poll. “Akume is talking of federal might, but I am not threatened about that. Federal might will not vote for elections in Benue; it is the people that will vote.  If he is talking about federal, then I have state might, which is the people,” Ortom said. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue state has accused his estranged political godfather, Senator George Akume of conspiring with the enemy of the state to destabilized his government. The governor said it was sad that Akume has not been able to speak with decorum more so that, he was once a… In "News" Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday accused his estranged political godfather, Senator George Akume, of conspiring with the enemy of the state to destabilise his government. The governor said it was sad that Akume has not been able to speak with decorum, more so that he was once a sitting… In "News" Benue state Governor, Samuel Ortom, has dragged his estranged political godfather and former governor of the state, Senator George Akume to the Supreme Assembly of the Tiv Area Traditional Council over accusations that the state government is behind killings in the state. Governor Ortom stated this while speaking at Tyulen… In "News"