Chairman, House Committee on Rules and Business in the House of Representatives and Member representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency of Plateau State. Edward Pwajok (SAN), said the APC administration of president Buhari and INEC has succeeded in creating more poverty and hardship for Nigerians on the postponement of the elections. According to him Nigeria became poverty capital of the world under the APC administration in the last three and have years. Hon. Pwajok stated this during the commissioning of his constituency projects, rural electrification at Dabwak-Dahwak, a village that has not seen light since 1914 in Kuru District of Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State. He noted that Nigerians have suffered poverty, hunger and insecurity in the last four years under the government and urged them to vote the APC out and bring people who will enthrone fairness, justice and economic prosperity in the country. He said the postponement of the Presidential and National Assembly elections on Saturday has increased the poverty level of Nigerians, saying  a lot of Nigerians had spent billions of naira, including candidates, civil society and even the electorates to traveled for the elections. “It is unfortunate that Nigeria state has become the poverty capital of the world under the APC government, this is not a good name for the country, it is better we bring back PDP where Nigeria will become the economic mainstay that will attract both local and International investors.” Pwajok blamed the current insecurity that has claimed several lives in the country on lopsided appointments of heads of security agencies by the Buhari’s administration. “When you have the whole security Heads in Nigeria being controlled by a particular ethnic group and religion, do you expect justice, fairness and peace? This is a condemnation of other areas in the country; it’s like you are telling other Nigerians that they are second class citizens or they do not belong. He expressed dismay that kidnapping, insecurity and other forms of criminal acts have been democratised under the present government and urged Nigerians to vote the APC out, and bring in those who will ensure fairness and justice. “The voting that will be done on the rescheduled date  is very significant because it will bring independence, liberation; because for the past four years, the people have been suffering from tyranny, people should come out and vote massively for PDP to liberate themselves from the grip of APC.”