  Aliu is a guy with a good heart; always wanting to help everyone around him. One way to describe him is to call him “Mr. Transformation”. He would always say to his friends – “if people’s lives don’t get better through me, why do I exist?” That shows the kind of heart he has. He is a talk and do guy.  Aliu, now in his thirties, made his first million at the age of 24. He graduated at a very younger age, got a good job that paid well; got a car and befitting accommodation. Those days, at the end of the month, Aliu would buy food stuff in large quantities and distribute to friends and neighbours. A lot of people knew him for his good deeds; in fact, many began to call him names like: “Chairman”, “Boss”, “Your Excellency” etc.  You know how everyone salutes you when all seems to be well with you; especially when they are benefitting from you? Some persons would almost even call you “Deputy-God”. Yeah, that’s the kind of accolades Aliu was enjoying. Suddenly, things began to dwindle for him. A colleague of his had lied against him (from the story that was told by him). Investigatory panel was setup by the management, he was found ‘guilty’. The management asked him to proceed on compulsory leave for an unspecified duration, without pay. The only thing Aliu he could fall back to was his car and some little savings in the bank. Days, weeks and months passed, Aliu was not called back to work. There was no other choice than to depend on the little he had in his account, about N212, 000 thereabouts. At a point, he had nothing left, he sold his car to feed and meet other needs. November 28, 2018 made it exactly two years that he had been jobless. Oh, did I tell you that he approached some of his friends for help? I mean those he was giving food stuff, money and other goodies when the going was good. But these friends just gave him one excuse or another. At a stage, some of them began to avoid him; they saw him as a liability.  Aliu lost most of his “friends” because of a bend on the road in his life. Only very few of his “many friends” stayed, assisted and encouraged him. Little wonder the Bible states that “a rich man has many friends but no one knows the route to a poor man’s house”. When all is well with you, everyone wants to flock around you. Just pretend as though things are bad, and then see how many will stay. Some friendships end where the benefits stop. Dear reader, it’s important you know the kind of people surrounding you. There is need to discern the kind of people around you, to determine if they are with you BECAUSE OF WHO YOU ARE or BECAUSE OF WHAT YOU HAVE. Many are fans, few are genuine friends, and others are ‘friendenemies’. On Sunday December 30, 2018, we were together having a general talk when his phone rang. Apparently, a staffer of his company was on the other end of the call. He or she had asked my friend to report to the office on Monday, December 31st. After the call, he had mixed feelings as to why he was needed at the office, considering the number of years he’s stayed at home. Making a long story short, around 2.30pm on December 31st, I got a call from my friend, Aliu; he was just screaming at the other end, I became confused. I couldn’t fathom anything from his screams. Suddenly, he began to cry. He said: “Femi, God has done it. I have been vindicated”. I couldn’t help but to say – “Thank you Jesus”. Further investigations had revealed that he was wrongfully suspended. The management reinstated him; promised to pay all arrears – salaries and other benefits (which was done earlier this January). EVERYTHING HAS CHANGED for Aliu. It’s pathetic how people tend to forget you and your good deeds when things are no longer going well with you. Some might even practically desert you, forgetting it’s just a phase. You might have been rejected because things went bad for you. Just like my friend, God is about to reinstate you, even beyond where you’ve been before; and everything lost shall be recover. Those who’ve looked down on you are about to look up to you. Those who’ve laughed at you will be invited to come do ushers in your occasion of celebration. Everything is about to change for good for you. Although you have been rejected, you are about to become the MAIN PILLAR. Aliu is a guy with a good heart; always wanting to help everyone around him. One way to describe him is to call him “Mr. Transformation”. He would always say to his friends – “if people’s lives don’t get better through me, why do I exist?” That shows the kind… In "Columnists" Do you know there are still men around who feel threatened by a girl’s family names and or wealth? In this day and age? It’s strange, so archaic, don't you think? It could have been honourable if it is fed by a genuine need to be independent and not be… In "Adam's Apple" Jay was bent on renewing conversation with Adele. From Charles’ story, he knew he wasn’t far from losing it all if he didn’t act immediately. He was lucky. Adele answered his call two days ago. Though she would not let him come to the house, she agreed to meet him… In "Bed Work & Life"