The Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt Division, yesterday declared that the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is qualified to present candidates for the various positions to be contested for during the coming general elections. The court granted a stay of execution of an earlier judgement of a Federal High Court Court that the party cannot present any candidate to contest the governorship and various positions at the state and National Assembly elections. The lead judge in yesterday’s ruling, Justice Yusuf Mustapha Yusuf, noted that it would be unjust to deny the party the opportunity to present candidates for the elections. He also pointed out that the various appeals against the earlier judgement of the Federal High Court contributed in granting APC its stay of execution prayer. He therefore said that the prayer of the APC to have the names of its candidates on the ballot box should be granted. Justice Yusuf stated that the court has jurisdiction to hear the matter against the position of the respondent’s counsel, Henry Bello. While countering the argument by Bello that the court cannot stay execution on the matter in which action has been completed, the judge ruled that it was not in the position to court to declare an event completed, when the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, which is a party in the matter has not affirmed such. Speaking with journalists after the judgement, counsel for APC candidates, Mr. Chimenem Wisdom Jerome, who held brief for Lateef O Fagbemi (SAN), said with the judgement, INEC will now allow APC candidates to contest the 2019 general elections. Also speaking, the counsel to Senator Magnus Abe, Patrick Luke, and 42 others in the suit CA3/37/2019, however,maintained that the court ruled in error. He said: “The appellant asked for a stay of execution of judgement of the Federal High Court delivered on January 7, 2019. They also asked for a restraining order. “The implication is that legally speaking, you cannot order for a stay of execution on a completed act. The art they sought to stay is for INEC to remove the name of the candidate of APC from their lists. That act has already been completed.” In a swift reaction, Rivers APC said: “We have always said that the wheel of justice may grind slowly, sometimes annoyingly slow, but surely justice comes ultimately. We believe that today’s (yesterday’s) judgment has vindicated APC in Rivers State.” INEC, in its reaction, said it is yet to be served with any court judgement mandating it to include candidates of the APC in Rivers State on the ballot for the general elections. Chief Press Secretary to the commission’s chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, said in an interview that the commission was still waiting for the content of the latest judgement. He told New Telegraph that the commission does not act on hearsay. “We have received calls concerning the judgement. But you know, as a commission, it is not right to act on hearsay. We have not been served with the judgement. When they serve us, we will study it and then decide what to do,” he said. The Rivers State PDP Campaign Council, on its part, said it is not perturbed in any way because the judgement will not affect the fortunes of the party in the elections. A statement issued by the Director of Information and Communications of the council, Barr Emma Okah, said: “The accumulated strength and capacity of the PDP in Rivers State is overwhelming and will defeat any political party or coalition that fields any candidate against the PDP in the 2019 polls.”