All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Rivers State, Tonye Cole, in this interview, speaks on the party’s internal wrangling over choice of candidates and its chances in the forthcoming elections. FELIX NWANERI reports  It is alleged that you are responsible for the crisis in Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the perception is that things were going well in the party until you declared for the governorship position. How do you react to that? I will say that everybody who looks at the sequence of events in Rivers APC knows that it is not true. Right from the beginning, I have said that I’m there as a peacemaker. There were already factions within the APC and those different factions were already creating frictions. So, it was necessary that we should have a third party, who is not factionalised for him to bring the people together. That was my aim. My aim in coming into the APC was to bring all the factions together and say ‘let us work together for greater good.’ With that I have been consistent. I have not changed from that message and I will continue to preach that message. Don’t you think that by seeking elective office, people will doubt the sincerity your original intention? I don’t think so and time will always tell. At the end of the day, people don’t know you from the very first day, but overtime, they will get to know who you are. I have history even in the church and where I worked. I have an uncanny ability to take a look at what the root of a problem is and not be distracted by the noise. I go straight to the root of the problem and solve it. But sometimes it takes trust. You need to gain the trust of the people to be able to achieve what you set out to do. So, I am not worried about that. Based on what has played out since you emerged as the governorship candidate of the party, have you been talking to other factions in Rivers APC?
Yes, we have and I will continue to do that. I have spoken to everybody; from Dumo Lulu Briggs to Dakuku Peterside, Magnus Abe and Rotimi Amaechi. My aim at the end of the day is to unite and not to divide. Unity takes trust and time, but it is something that we are going to continue working on until it is achieved. Not everybody would be won. You cannot win everybody, but those you can win, it is important that you do. How do you feel when the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike moved against your private business? It is something that is a risk for business people. First of all, I have left Sahara Energy completely. I resigned and I am not part of Sahara anymore. Do you still have equity in the company?
No! I left completely so that I can focus on my governorship project. I can’t be at two places at the same time, so my focus is on this one. The issue for me is that this is where I am. I cannot have one leg here and the other leg there. Once I have decided that I want to do something, I do it completely. Now, having left Sahara, the issue that happened with the state government going after Sahara is a business decision. My erstwhile business partners will handle it. Why is that the case? We are a company that had survived one administration after another for 23 years. If you survived 23 years in a country that has had one administration after another, you will know how to handle government and you will always be at risk.
There was a time when I was standing by Rotimi Amaechi and the government of former President Goodluck Jonathan basically came after us. They took out all our contracts and all that. I personally had to leave the country and went to study at Harvard, so that my business will not be threatened at that point in time. So, once you take a stand for something, somebody will always come after you and I don’t think it is ever going to end as long as we have the democratic framework that we have.  In the face of these multiple crises, what are the chances of your party in the elections?
I think our chances are still strong. What happened when you have crisis is that there is always a point that you get to, where reality has to come in. Everybody will stand their position until the point, when you look at it as ‘black and white.’ The reality came when the Justice Omotosho judgement came and said as far as that court is concerned, no APC candidates will be fielded in Rivers State. I think at that point, anybody who wasn’t willing to listen before as to where the crisis was going to end if they continue in that position, saw the writing on the wall that it was time to sit down and unite. I have maintained one thing from day one after studying the situation. I have ensured that one always stayed within the gambit of the law. There is only one APC hierarchy. It doesn’t matter how you want to do it. That came through the congress that was standing on the order of the court. A primary was held based on that congress. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) recognised that congress, the APC hierarchy in Abuja recognised that congress. That congress produced me as the governorship candidate and other candidates.
At the end of the day, when it comes to reconciliation, for APC to have candidates, which is what we are working on with the courts today is for the party to be put on the ballot. The only ones they are going to select are the same ones they removed their names. So, when you think about it like that, you know that everybody has to rally around that one APC. So, my belief is that I will be the candidate when it comes to the election with other candidates that came out of the primaries. But you are not campaigning…
Yes, because there was what I will call an illegal act by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. The party interfered in APC’s matter, went to court and asked the court to prevent another party from campaigning. To every rational mind, the belief was that the application would be thrown out because there are two rulings by the Supreme Court that barred a party from interfering in the affairs of another party. But, to our utmost surprise, a judge delivered ruling in their favour. As a law abiding citizen, you cannot say that you will go against that judgement because it went against previous judgements and you start campaigning. So, I told my party not to be bothered because there is God in heaven, who understands justice and that we should appeal against the judgement. Don’t you think that time is running out for your party to embark on campaigns given that the elections will commence a few days from now?
I don’t think so because the courts have to give clear judgements in everything that has to do with pre-election matters. Secondly, INEC is not bound to stick on the earlier scheduled dates because there are legitimate reasons to move the elections either by a week or two. One of the reasons is the illegal campaign stoppage. Having said that, I know what I saw when I embarked on ward-to-war campaign. The PDP is not on ground and I saw lots of disenchantment on the faces of the people. It is one thing to do rallies, talk and make very heavy promises, but after that, nobody sees you again.
My strategy is very simple; I want to sit down with the people to find out what their needs are. So, I embarked on a ward-to-ward campaign. Prior to doing that, the impression some people had was that PDP is very strong at the grassroots, but I didn’t see that. What I saw is a people, who were desperately in need of something new. I have been to over 230 communities in Rivers State, where I spoke with the people and that is about two-third of the state. We were about to visit the remaining one-third, when that judgement came. That, I think was out of fear, but we are not worried. When the time comes, we know how to reach to remaining communities. There is the belief that you are relying on former Governor Amaechi’s political structure to win the election. How true is that assumption? I am relying on the APC structure, not on anybody’s structure because I believe that unless we have one party and not factions of a party, we cannot win the election. So, I stand on the existing APC structure. Within that APC structure, people may have those they like or not, that is fine, but at the back of our minds, we should realise that we have one party. So, I am relying on the APC structure that was built pre-2015 elections and has remained up till today. What is your relationship with Senator Magnus Abe, who is also laying claim to APC governorship ticket? I believe that every single person has something great he or she can offer, so the task of an effective leader is to find out those good qualities in different individuals and bring them out for the betterment of the state. That is what my responsibility is. So, you are not going to see me attack Magnus Abe, Governor Nyesom Wike or anybody else because I believe that as we move down the line, everyone has something to offer and we must bring those things out, if not, Rivers State will not get to where it is supposed to be. When last did you speak with Abe on this issue? When I started speaking with him on this matter, he was clear to me that I cannot solve it. He said that the only person who can solve the matter is Amaechi, but I told him that I believe that I have a role to play in solving it regardless how big or small it is. I also told him that it is important that he and I sit together, but he has been very determined that the only person, who can solve the problem is Amaechi and that the only solution is that every other person must step down for him. That has been his position and he has not moved from that till today. So, it makes it difficult to resolve the matter.