As the Premier League inches toward its business end, one of the most anticipated clashes comes up on Sunday with leaders Manchester City battling Chelsea. This encounter, to many, is one of the fixtures that has been marked as the decisive games of the season regarding whether the league title stays at the Blue side of Manchester or the three-decades league title drought of Liverpool will come to an end – although, third-placed Tottenham are still very much in the running for the title as well. For the ardent follower of the league, this tie is expected to bring to the fore the great talents of Chelsea’s talisman, Eden Hazard while the hosts can count on the great scoring form of deadly Argentine striker Sergio Aguerro. Belgian hazard was lampooned by Chelsea faithful for his insipid outing in the 4-0 battering at Bournemouth but compensated for his below par display by starring in the 5-0 win of relegation-bound Huddersfield last Saturday. Hazard is most likely to exit the London club at the end of the season having been a long-term target of Spanish giants Real Madrid but the match against the Citizens, who are regarded by Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri, as the best team in Europe, provides the talented playmaker the opportunity to be considered as one of the top five best players in European football. Sarri, at a pre-match press conference alluded that Chelsea were lucky to have triumphed in their first meeting, but the likes of Hazard, Willian, Pedro and new recruit, Gonzalo Higuain would like to prove their Italian boss wrong considering the fact that Newcastle, Leicester and more significantly Crystal Palace have managed wins over Pep Guardiola’s multi-international side. He played a huge role in the first leg with an assist for the opening goal by N’golo Kante with David Luiz’s looping header sealing a 2-0 win Hazard would be keen to repeat his great performance against the hosts where he masterminded a 3-1 come-from-behind win three seasons ago. City are keen for a revenge after their unbeaten run to the season was halted by the Blues in the reverse fixture and they would be counting on the deadly scoring prowess of their diminutive South American goal banger. Though Aguerro failed to hit the bull’s eye at Goodison Park in midweek, he and City fans would love to see him get on the score sheet and more crucially to bag the full points at stake which would confirm their return to the summit regardless of the outcome of Liverpool’s game on Saturday. Should Aguerro fail to be on song, the likes of Gabriel Jesus, Leroy Sane, Kevin De Bruyne would shoulder the task of seeing the reigning champions get bragging rights regarding who triumph in this super heavyweight duel.