One of the male passengers in an interstate bus, who witnessed the shooting and subsequently killing of a man identified as Godwin by officers of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) at Shagamu interchange along Ijebu Ode on Sunday, has disclosed his version of what really led to the shooting. The man, who spoke on a phone recording, that had been trending on social media, said trouble started after one of the Customs men demanded N5,000 bribe from their bus driver. According to the man, after the Customs men flagged down their bus, their driver went to meet them at the back. A few minutes later, one of the Customs officers returned to the bus and told the passengers that they were going to search the entire luggage in the booth of the bus. A passenger sitting at the front seat of the bus told them it was wrong. He added: “The passenger said that the luggage contained our personal stuff, that there were no exhibits. He told them that everyone in the bus was returning from abroad. But the Customs man said that they were doing their job. The passenger asked him if the immigration official that checked them didn’t know their job, the Customs officer said yes. The passenger asked him what about Customs officials at the airport; he responded that those couldn’t make an arrest. At that point, the passenger at the front seat got down. Those of us inside the bus shouted that the door of the bus should be opened, so that we could step out. The heat was much.” The man continued: “Another Customs officer said yes, everyone must step down to identify their bags. The passenger at the front seat said no, that the officers wouldn’t be allowed to search our bags inside the bush. The place was a bush. As the passenger was video recording them, one of the Customs men picked a wood and wanted hit one of our brothers, we all shouted, and that was how he just corked his AK47 rifle and opened fire. One guy fell down and died. “We all started shouting, Customs don kill person, Customs don kill person. The rest of the Customs officers scattered and ran into the bush. The shooter then raised the hand of the dead man. We thought the dead man was one of our passengers. He was not in Customs’ uniform. That was why we started fighting them. One of the Customs officers wanted to enter their Hilux van. The car they placed the dead man was just a derelict one. They had two vehicles there. “When we went to check for means of identification on the deceased, we then discovered that the T-shirt he wore had Customs officer inscription was on it. We then realised that he was not one of our passengers. We entered our bus and we were exactly 10 passengers. We left the Customs officers. Yes, Customs officer killed Customs officer. The shooter, after the killing, looked like his spirit died. The rest of the Customs men, thinking it was a passenger that was killed, ran into the bush. They were up to eight Customs men at that spot. “The driver told us that the Customs men asked him to bring N5,000; he explained to them that he was not the owner of the luggage in the booth of the bus. It was because the driver said that the items didn’t belong to him and that he didn’t have N5,000 that made the Customs men to insist they wanted to search our entire luggage.” The altercation between the passengers, who were in Iyare Motors and the Customs men, leading to shooting to death of Godwin, was captured on two videos by some of the passengers. The videos, which were uploaded on the internet on Sunday, went viral, causing anger among Nigerians.