Trouble is brewing in the famous social organization, Eko Club, Lagos following yesterday’s announcement of Politician, Dr Shamsudeen Ade Dosunmu as the incoming President of the club. Sources at the Club located on Bode Thomas Street, Surulere, Lagos revealed that members are unhappy and have begun to silently protest the announcement, accusing the Guardian Council, which made the selection, as breaching club rules and engaging in illegality. We were told that the candidate chosen by the Guardian Council should have been disqualified if the laws stipulated in the club’s constitution was strictly obeyed. According to  Article 35 Section 2c of the 2014 Amended Constitution of the Club, “All interested members to be considered for the selection of the post of President and Vice President should disclose their interest in writing to the Guardian Council within two months of the stipulated election and such interested member should have been financial members and regular users of the club for not less than 15 years with proven integrity antecedents” We gathered that Dr Dosunmu during his interview conducted yesterday told the Guardian Council that indeed he was not a financial or regular member, this is the reason some members of the club are unhappy with the Guardian Council which they have now described as a Cabal. Our investigation revealed that Mr Ade Dosunmu’s name is not on the list of financial members published by the Club at the end of the financial year 2018. In fact, the list made available us indicates that Dr Dosunmu, whose membership number is 579 is missing. He reportedly paid his annual dues on January 18, 2019, which clearly contravenes the laid down provisions of the popular famous club which was formed in 1974. Members are at a loss why the Guardian Council had taken this decision that is capable of throwing the club into disarray especially as the current President, Chief Tunde Fanimokun had been adjudged by everyone to have performed excellently well. When we visited the Club, a member who begged for anonymity told us that Chief Fanimokun had used his expertise and experience to develop the club. “He has completely renovated two of the club halls, and has even begun an extension project that will be opened later this month. He has been working at a pace never before seen at Eko Club and this is probably what has made some people, especially those who have turned themselves into a cable very uncomfortable.  Fanimokun more that deserves a new term, he has been a very honest in the management of  Club, I can tell you that majority of members will not allow this decision by the Council to stand” He stated. We have not been able to reach the major actors involved in this drama for comments