Upwardly mobile humourist, Francis Agoda, more known by his showbiz moniker, I-Go-Dye, has begun to make timely intervention to tackle austere times among youths in Delta State. He’d begun by creating a platform for youths to harness their God-given talents with a project dubbed, ‘Sorting Out Raw Talents (SORT)’. This is part of his Francis Agoda Path of Honour (FAPOH) initiative which he unveiled a while ago where he staked $5,000 to challenge youths to come up with a video skit that would promote peace during the 2019 general elections with hashtag #Istandforpeace2019elections”.
Speaking on the SORT initiative, I Go Dye said, “Obviously at this point of our existence, selfless contributions that will create alternatives to engage youths should be encouraged. We cannot continue to leave the responsibility of supporting the youths in the hands of government alone. In the past, programmes like West Africa Idol, Project Fame and others have really helped our talented youths in Nigeria, making the winners who they are today. So, this requires the support of us all, because its objectives are aimed at eradicating youths’ restiveness, making them to become more resourceful and productive and we have the support of Delta State Government. We are looking at taking it across Niger Delta before we do SORT NINJA. Like they say, charity begins at home, that is why we are lunching this project SORT in Delta State.
Speaking further he reeled out the details of the project which according to runs from begin on February 13, 2019 and end on February 27, 2019.
“The activation and auditioning commenced in Warri on the 13th of February at Wellington hotel from 9am till 5pm. Agbor will be next on 21st of February at City View Suite and Lounge, and the last auditioning will hold on 23rd of February 2019 at Nelrose Hotel Asaba while the grand event is on the 27th of February 2019 at the Dome Event Centre, Asaba. Project SORT will be looking out for talented youths across Delta State, it is expected to reach those in the grassroots and afford them a place to be heard and seen,” he said.
The ace comedian further added that, “Winners of the auditioning for each local government will become FAPOH Talents and Brain Ambassadors of their local government and will be rewarded with the sum of N500,000 which will qualify the winners for the grand finale. The star prize will be 2 million with a brand new car. Second prize and third are 1.5 million and 1 million respectively. Performing at the grand finale event will be veteran comedians like I Go Save, Gordons, Ay and I Go Dye himself. 2Baba and Harrysong will lead the ensemble of musicians that will perform at the event. It’s an opportunity to engage our teeming youths and hope that many Deltans and other well-meaning citizens of Nigeria would emulate this project by supporting.”
According to him, there has been a nagging decline in the growth level of entertainment in Delta State because opportunities to harness the talents have not been adequate.
“I want to thank the state governor Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa for the partnership and support of this project as we strive to achieve the FAPOH set goals. I also thank 2face, Harrysong, I Go Save for their support. I want to call for individuals and corporate organizations to support this project because this responsibility is not for FAPOH alone, it’s for all, it empowers the youths for the future,” he appealed.
I Go Dye is a UN Global Goals Ambassador, World Habitat Ambassador working to actualize the United Nations goals. In 2017 he won the Africa Child prize, making him an African Child Ambassador. He is also a UKAid/YAF goodwill Ambassador on Making A Difference Against Corruption Today (MADACT). In his little contribution to checkmate youth restiveness in Delta State and create a platform for youths to harness their God-given talents, Ace comedian, Francis Agoda, popularly known as I Go Dye has launched a new project tagged 'Sorting Out Raw Talents (SORT)'. This is part of his Francis Agoda… In "Arts & Entertainments" Comedian, Francis Agoda, popularly known as I Go Dye, has said that the level of corruption seen by youths and suffering of pensioners are reasons most people don’t go to public office or service. I Go Dye, who stated this at an award tagged, “Making a Difference Against Corruption Today”,… In "Arts & Entertainments" Nigerian comedian Francis Agoda aka ‘I Go dye’ has expressed willingness to support Rico Swarvey, ex-housemate BBNaija `Double Wahala’ in his restaurant business. Rico was recently evicted from the ongoing BBNaija Double Wahala reality show after receiving the lowest votes of 7.71 per cent among the housemates nominated for eviction.… In "Arts & Entertainments"