Chester Hollman spent 28 years behind bars, knowing every single day that he served that he is innocent.
Now the court knows that too. Hollman had his conviction overturned, his charges dropped and he is now fully exonerated.
Hollman’s exoneration had been in the works for years, through various efforts to have him freed, but it wasn’t until the case was reviewed by Philadelphia’ District Arttorney’s Office’s Conviction Integrity Unit in January 2018 that the wheels of justice began to turn.
“He’s a full spectrum of emotions,” Hollman’s longtime lawyer Alan Tauber told ABC News.
Two witnesses who originally testified at the 1993 trial recanted their earlier testimony, saying that they did not actually see Hollman at the scene of the murder of a college exchange student in Philadelphia in the early morning hours of Aug. 1, 1991.
‘The Philadelphia Inquirer’ reports that those witnesses have since recanted their testimony — with one of the witnesses recanting hers in 2012 before the judge that exonerated Hollman on Tuesday.
As part of the Conviction Integrity Unit’s probe, investigators determined that when that witness recanted in 2012, a detective who denied her claims had accusations of wrongdoing made against him in another case, which would have raised doubts about his integrity to the judge when presented with the witness’s new testimony in 2012.
Tauber said that Hollman, now 49, holds no grudges against the witnesses.
Tauber told ABC News that he asked Hollman “how are you not angry at the peple who gave false testimony against you?'”
“He says ‘How could I be angry at them? they’re victims too,'” Hollman said, suggesting that the police pressured their testimony.
“I said to the judge, ‘if you want to see what grace looks like, look into the face of Chester Hollman,” Tauber said.
The Conviction Integrity Unit also discovered that police withheld information that could have led to other suspects, ‘The Inquirer’ reported.
“We believe it was near-impossible Chester Hollman was the perpetrator of the crime,” Assistant District Attorney Patricia Cummings, head of the Conviction Integrity Unit, said in court on Tuesday, according to the newspaper.
“I apologize to Chester Hollman,” Cumming said. “I apologize because he was failed, and in failing him, we failed the victim, and we failed the community of the city of Philadelphia.”
She wasn’t the only one to apologize on behalf of a major institution, as the judge who oversaw Tuesday’s motion hearing to dismiss the charges against Hollman also apologized on behalf of the court, reports ABC News.