As the House of Representatives resume plenary after a 19-day recess, the lawmakers are expected to settle down for proper legislative business. PHILIP NYAM takes a look at the likely challenges that may confront the leadership of Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila  On June 11, Hon. Olufemi Gbajabiamila, representing Surulere 1 federal constituency of Lagos State became the 11th speaker of the House of Representatives. Two days later, the House adjourned to enable lawmakers, especially those coming into the parliament for the first time to conclude their relocation arrangements.
Before proceeding on the recess, Gbajabiamila announced the constitution of ad hoc committees that will create an enabling environment for the 9th House to begin seamless operations.
The committees include that of media and publicity headed by former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Hon. Khadija Bukar Abba-Ibrahim (APC, Yobe); committee on rules and business, committee on welfare, headed by Hon. Wale Raji (APC, Lagos) and the selection committee headed by the speaker himself.
All the committees were duly inaugurated during the break and have been working to meet the deadline given to them. However, these committees are only ad hoc and are expected to handover their findings and recommendations to the speaker on resumption. Hence, the speaker would subsequently be left to make key decisions that could define the direction and nature of his agenda.
Of course, Gbajabiamila is yet to make public, his comprehensive legislative agenda. During the campaign, his slogan was “Joint Task” in which he promised to carry along every lawmaker irrespective of party affiliation.
Therefore, with the resumption of plenary, every lawmaker will be waiting to see what is contained in the joint Task agenda; and members would definitely begin assessing the speaker from the content of the agenda. How soon this legislative agenda is laid bare would determine the level confidence the legislators would confer on the Gbajabiamila-led leadership. Principal Officers
The speaker and deputy speaker cannot run the House alone; therefore the constitution of the complete House leadership is paramount. But this is the first challenge Speaker Gbajabiamila would face because different interests are already pushing for the available positions of majority leader, chief whip, deputy leader and deputy majority whip.
The speaker’s camp must have made commitments to some lawmakers to yield certain leadership positions to them in the run up to the election on June 11. However, with the election over and with the emergence of speaker and his deputy, the scenario may have called for realignment of forces and this will be the first litmus test for Gbajabiamila.
The question over this, is: Will he stick to his promises or tinker with the pre-election arrangement to accommodate other interests? Already, there are reports of alleged clash between loyalists of the speaker and the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is said to be making attempts to impose a majority leader on the House.
The House leadership position, New Telegraph reliably gathered was ceded to the North-West and specifically to Kano State before the election. And even in Kano, it was rumoured that the erstwhile chief whip of the House, Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, is favoured by the Gbajabiamila’s camp to emerge as House leader.
But reports indicate that the APC national chairman, Oshiomhole, is rooting for a different candidate from Kano in the person of Hon. Aminu Goro, representing Faggae federal constituency. But, 21 out of the 24 members of the House of Representatives from Kano State are said to have opposed the purported candidature of Goro, who is being allegedly foisted by Oshiomhole.
“The National Working Committee had allocated principal positions to various zones and as such the legislators from the zone alongside other stakeholders of the party collectively nominated candidates for the principal positions. Out of the 24 members from Kano State, 21 have vehemently rejected the purported choice of Goro. He is been tipped by Oshiomhole for selfish reasons.
“At this point, the APC must put forward people, who not only have the political dexterity, but the goodwill among their colleagues and the people. The federal legislators from Kano State have unanimously rejected Oshiomhole’s nominee, Goro, for the position of majority leader,” a lawmaker from Kano said.
The minority parties are also yet to release names of their principal officers. Though the speaker has no say on who occupies any of the minority positions, the caliber of lawmakers chosen to work with him and how he relates with them will make or mar his performance.
With this development, the speaker is more or less in a tinder box and may be torn between pandering to the whims and caprices of the party’s leadership or stick to the arrangement he had with his colleagues. Against this backdrop, it is left to be seen how the speaker will handle the allocation of principal offices without offending the party or incurring the wrath of his colleagues. Committee chairmen
Since 1999, one of the issues that almost always drag leaders of the National Assembly to slip on the proverbial “banana peels” is the appointment of chairmen and deputy chairmen of standing committees.
The House of Representatives currently has 102 standing committees with 350 members jostling for either chairmanship or deputy chairmanship. Ten out of the 360-member House are going to hold principal officers positions.
Gbajabiamila, being a speaker who received overwhelming support from members across the nine political parties that have elected representatives in the chamber will be confronted with how to satisfy the diverse interests in the midst of a few committees. It has been the practice for the ruling party to retain majority of the chairmanship of standing committees; particularly, those described as “juicy committees.”
But, Speaker Gbajabiamila had promised during the campaign period that he would give at least 50 per cent of the committee chairmanship to the opposition led by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In fact, even after his election and during his recent visit to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the speaker told State House correspondents that lawmakers elected on the platform of the opposition PDP will head and be carried along in the formation of committees.
His words: “You will see how we intend to carry them along. I don’t want to let the cat out of the bag, but you can be assured that they (PDP lawmakers) would be carried along.”
This is beside the fact that his Director-General of campaign, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, constantly reaffirmed during the campaign the readiness of the speaker to cede many committee chairmen to the opposition.
Apart from the PDP, Gbajabiamila will also have to satisfy his core loyalists in the APC and this has to be done through their appointment to committees of their choices. Of course, the support he received from members elected on the platform was massive unlike in 2015, when majority of the APC members opposed the candidature of Speaker Yakubu Dogara.
At least, about five erstwhile speakership candidates had stepped down for Gbajabiamila and they include Abdulrazaq Namdas (APC, Adamawa), Yusuf Buba Yakub (APC, Adamawa), Olajide Olatunbosun (APC, Oyo), Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (APC, Abia) and John Dyegh (APC, Benue), who stood down for Deputy Speaker Idris Wase.
It is expected that these lawmakers would be compensated, but how the speaker settles them will reflect the support his leadership will enjoy. Reconciliation
Gbajabiamila will have a herculean task reconciling the various camps in the House. There is no doubt that lawmakers loyal to the defeated speakership contestant, Hon. Umaru Mohammed Bago, are still aggrieved and cannot be wished away because their cooperation and support is needed for the peace and development of the House.
At the moment, a group of lawmakers under the auspices of G-70 are threatening to sue the leadership and seek for the nullification of the election of Gbajabiamila and his deputy, Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase.
Spokesperson for the G-70, Hon. Mark Terseer Gbillah (PDP, Benue) had in an exclusive interview with New Telegraph, revealed that the group was open to dialogue and negotiation, but would not hesitate to take necessary action should Gbajabiamila fail to acknowledge his weaknesses.
Gbillah had alleged that members were induced financially to cast their votes for speaker and made reference to a video of lawmakers taking shots of their ballot alongside a card distributed by Gbajabiamila/Wase Campaign Organisation, as proof of his claim of vote-buying.
The G-70 image maker, however, explained that their agitation is not at the behest of Bago. “It is not about Bago. At this moment, Bago is not part of us. The G-70 is a group of bipartisan members, who are interested in upholding the integrity of the House and National Assembly”
He added: “We are completely embarrassed and ashamed of what our hallowed chamber has been turned into. And we are not going to relent even if it means exploring legal means to question the legitimacy of the so called election of Gbajabiamila as speaker in the light of the facts that have unfolded. We are not against the functioning of the legislature; we are not attempting to truncate the functions of the House.
“We are interested in ensuring that the integrity of the House is upheld; that the confidence of Nigerian people is restored and respected. If we see that the elected Speaker, purportedly as it is, who we have already accepted as the speaker intends to introspectively reflect on the manner in which he was elected, we are open to dialogue and negotiation.
“The essence of G-70 is not to cause further fragmentation and discordance in the House that would affect the nation and our democracy. So, we are going to be pursuing our grievances with the highest level of responsibility. That is why we have not completed certain actions yet. We have already been reached by many statesmen and concerned Nigerians to exercise some discretion in observing the conduct of the new leadership.”
Speaking further, Gbillah noted that their slowing down on taking action, saying: “We are discussing with our lawyers and exploring legal actions because there are technicalities we need to address. What we need to do is to get the Clerk of the National Assembly (CAN) to preserve those ballot papers for forensic investigation. But without divulging much information, there are issues, which we are discussing with our lawyers on the best way to handle them.”
Also, during the campaign, Gbajabiamila disclosed that the leadership of the House under Speaker Dogara did not accord him the privilege of nominating any of his loyalists as chairman of a standing committee.
At an interactive session with the minority caucus led by the PDP, Gbajabiamila said: “I am the leader of the House with no single committee chairman slot of almost 200 committees. I heard about the appointment of committee chairmen on the floor of the House like any other person, but I took it in my stride.”
Dogara had stood solidly behind Bago as his potential successor. Incidentally, the same Dogara played a pivotal role in convincing John Dyegh (APC, Benue) not to contest against Wase, which was acknowledged in the speaker’s inaugural address.
How Gbajabiamila is able to marry these scenarios and pacify those standing on his way will go a long way in charting a cause for the new House. Gbajabiamila’s person
In his 20 years as a legislator in the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila has come to represent different things to many lawmakers; but an incontrovertible fact is that he is an excellent lawmaker. However, the speaker needs to convince his colleagues who see him differently from the fine lawmaker that he is.
In 2015, when he lost to ex-speaker Yakubu Dogara, many analysts and even some of his colleagues accused him of contributing to his loss. Some accused him of being proud and looking down on his colleagues; others alleged that he does not attend social events and was cut off from his colleagues. In fact, others held that he was a very difficult individual.
Apparently, Speaker Gbajabiamila is not oblivious of these views and he made faint reference to it when he met with the minority caucus of the House a few days before his election.
Addressing the caucus, Gbajabiamila noted that he was a misunderstood person. “I am somebody who when I lost election in 2015, I quickly raised the hand of the speaker. I am somebody who never opposed the speaker. I am somebody who is often quiet but jovial. I am somebody who those that oppose me in 2015 are now some of my best friends in the House.”
These explanations, notwithstanding, Gbajabiamila will have to disabuse the minds of those, who do not know his person. This could be done through his actions and the decisions he makes on critical issues beginning with the appointment of committee chairmen.