 FELIX NWANERI reports on the intrigues that characterised the emergence of the 10 principal officers of the 9th Senate  The stage is set for the 9th Senate to take off following yesterday’s announcement of the remaining principal officers of the upper legislative chamber. The Red Chamber which was inaugurated on June 11, the same day it elected two out of its 10 principal officers. They are Senator Ahmed Lawan and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege as president and deputy president, respectively. The build-up to the election of the Senate leadership, as expected, was intriguing. From subtle moves to alignment and re-alignment of the 109 members of the Senate after the general elections, it later turned out a battle royale. For the office of Senate President, the contest was a two-horse race between Senators Ahmed Lawan and Ali Ndume. Both are of the ruling party and the North-East zone, where the party zoned the Senate presidency to. Besides the battle for the prime position in the Senate, there was also an intriguing contest for the position of Deputy Senate President. The ruling party, apparently, not only embraced zoning, but adopted candidates for the various leadership positions in both chambers of the federal legislature to avoid the 2015 experience that ruptured its pre-inauguration arrangement of the 8th National Assembly and led to the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara as president and speaker of the 8th Senate and House of Representatives, respectively. Saraki and Dogara had then emerged against the choice of the APC leadership through an alleged power deal they struck with their colleagues elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The duo were former members of the PDP until they pitched tent with the APC in 2013. Saraki, a former governor of Kwara State emerged unopposed through the support of about 60 senators, who were present during the inauguration, while Dogara polled 182 votes against Femi Gbajabiamila’s 174. Ironically, Saraki’s main challenger, Lawan and other 50 APC senators were at the International Conference Centre (ICC), where they were billed to hold a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, when the election took place in the Red Chamber. No doubt, the development then humbled the leadership of the ruling party, which had opted for Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamiala, respectively as heads of the upper and lower legislative chambers, but it offered the opposition PDP, the opportunity to clinch the position of Deputy Senate President through Senator Ekweremadu. The APC leadership initially threatened sanctions against the “rebels” but later made a detour. The issue, however, got to a head, when Saraki announced names of principal officers of the Senate on June 25, 2015. The names were different from those submitted by the leadership of the party. Those who emerged had earlier won the mock elections conducted by the zonal caucuses of the party. They include Ndume (Majority Leader), Bala Ibn Na’Allah (Deputy Senate Leader) and Alimikhena (Deputy Chief Whip). Expectedly, the Lawan group, which was backed by the leadership of the party, rejected the list. A similar attempt to adopt the Saraki model in the House of Representatives resulted to a free-for-all between members of the two factions in the chamber. The cold war, which ensued afterwards, cut short the euphoria that ushered in the APC government; led to a frosty relationship between the executive and legislature and culminated to the return of Saraki, Dogara and others elected on the platform of the APC to the PDP. But, the APC was able to put its house in order this time as it had its way during the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly as the party’s choices for the leadership of the Senate and House of Representatives – Lawan and Gbajabiamila – respectively emerged despite the fact its distribution of leadership positions in the National Assembly did not go down well with the various tendencies in the party. Lawan, who represents Yobe North emerged President of the 9th Senate after defeating Ali Ndume of Borno-South by 79 to 28 votes, while Omo-Agege (Delta Central) emerged the Deputy Senate President after defeating the immediate Deputy Senate President, Ekweremadu by 68 to 37 votes. No doubt, Lawan and Omo-Agege emerged in line with the expectation of the leadership of the ruling party, but it has been intrigues since then for the remaining four principal office positions the party is entitled to by virtue of having majority of the 109 member Senate. The positions, which the APC is entitled to are Senate Leader, Deputy Senate leader, Chief Whip and Deputy Chief Whip. The main opposition party – Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) – is entitled to the positions of Minority Leader, Deputy Leader, Minority Whip and Deputy Whip. Though several ranking senators of the APC extraction showed interest for the positions, which their party is entitled to, the national leadership of the ruling party at a time shortlisted former governors of Nasarawa, Abia and Kebbi states – Abdullahi Adamu, Orji Uzor Kalu and Adamu Aliero – as well as the senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice, for the respective   positions. New Telegraph gathered then that Adamu was tipped for the position of Majority Leader, while Kalu, Boroffice and Aliero were shortlisted as Deputy Majority Leader, Chief Whip and Deputy Chief Whip, respectively. A source revealed that the choice of the quartet was arrived at, following a zoning process adopted by the APC National Working Committee (NWC) and that a list to that effect was expected to be adopted on July 2 (yesterday), when the Senate resumes from its recess. It was further learnt then that the ruling party shunned former Governors Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun) and Rochas Okorocha (Imo) who indicated interest in the various positions. The zoning process through which the party arrived at the three former governors – Adamu, Kalu and Aliero – who interestingly served within the same period (1999-2007) under the platform of the PDP, before their defection to the APC, first, involved ceding of the four positions – Majority Leader to North Central, Deputy Majority Leader to South-East, Chief Whip to South-West and Deputy Chief Whip to North-West. The second step involved meeting of party zonal leaders in the respective zones to decide on who among senators from their areas will get the positions. However, the second step was not adopted in the case of the South-East as the national leadership decided for the zone. “The APC national leadership zoned the four offices to the respective four zones and after that, their zonal leaders met and decided on who among the senators will get the positions, with the exception of the South-East to avoid the process being truncated because Rochas Okorocha showed interest for the position of Deputy Majority Leader,” a party source told New Telegraph then.  Besides adopting zoning to ensure that all the six geopolitical zones were accommodated in the sharing of principal offices in the Senate, New Telegraph was further informed that the party’s hierarchy resolved to compensate loyalists, who respected party decisions and supported preferred candidates at the Assembly elections and thereby frustrated the PDP from taking any slot in the majority leadership of the two chambers. “It is payback time. The APC is set to reward those loyal party members who refused all temptations to rock the boat for the party during the inauguration of the National Assembly on Tuesday last week because it will act as an encouragement to party members in future elections. “So, those National Assembly members who sacrificed their personal ambitions to run for specific offices are definitely going to be rewarded in one way or another. If they had gone ahead to contest for the position of Senate Deputy, do you think that Omo-Agege, who is the party’s candidate would have won? “In fact, the 2015 scenario was almost repeating itself, but for the last minute pressure, which made people like Orji Uzor Kalu, Kabiru Gaya and Ajayi Boroffice to step down. You saw what PDP planned to do, but luckily, there was unity of purpose among the APC senators-elect and that was the saving grace for the party,” the ranking senator told New Telegraph. Adamu was said to have been considered then for the position of Majority Leader because he not only shelved his interest in the position of Senate President, when the party opted for the North-East, but is strong supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari. The former governor of Nasarawa State, who has been in the Senate since 2007, was at a time the chairman of Northern Senators Caucus as well as leader of pro-Buhari senators, which pitted him against the leadership of the 8th Senate under Bukola Saraki. For Kalu, he was naturally going to be the choice of the South-East being the most ranking lawmaker of APC extraction in the Red Chamber from the zone. The former Abia State governor was a member of the House of Representatives in the aborted Third Republic. He also heeded to the party’s directive to drop his ambition for Senate President and Senate Deputy President to support the preferred candidates. Kalu had insisted on running against Omo-Agege for the position of Deputy Senate President even up to the eve of the inauguration of the Senate, but stepped down in the interest of the party. For the position of Chief Whip that was said to have been zoned to the South-West then, seven senators from the zone were screened. They were wife of APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Oluremi, and Solomon Adeola (Lagos); Olubunmi Adetunbi and Opeyemi Bamidele (Ekiti), Teslim Folarin (a former Senate Leader, Oyo), Lekan Mustapha (Ogun) and Boroffice (Ondo). The two APC senators from Osun State – Basiru Surajudeen and Adeyemi Oriolowo – were not considered because they are first-timers in the Senate, while the immediate past governor of Ogun State, Amosun (Ogun Central), a second-timer, was overlooked as he is presently under suspension over alleged anti-party activities during the last elections. It was further gathered that the contest was narrowed down between Senators Tinubu and Boroffice, who both showed interest in the position of Senate Deputy President before backing out. Boroffice, however, emerged tops because APC leaders in the South-West argued that it would be unfair for Lagos Central (Oluremi Tinubu’s senatorial district), which produced the Speaker of House of Representatives – Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila – to also take the position of Senate Chief Whip. On the part of Aliero, who was shortlisted as Deputy Chief Whip, a source said he was considered on his strength as two-term governor, two-term senator and former minister. But, politics being what it is – a game of the possible – only two out of the four “favoured” APC senators – Boroffice and Kalu – made it yesterday, when the President of the Senate, Lawan, announced the list of principal officers sent to him by the leadership of the APC and PDP. Lawan, at the resumption of plenary, named Senator Abdullahi Yahaya (Kebbi North) as Senate Leader and Senator Boroffice as his deputy. Senator Kalu was named as Chief Whip, while Senator Sabi Abdullahi (Niger North) was named Deputy Whip. Similarly, the Senate President announced Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe (Abia South) as the Minority Leader and Phillip Aduda (Federal Capital Territory) as Minority Whip. He also named Senator Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South) as the Deputy Leader and Senator Sahabi Yau (Zamfara North) as the Deputy Whip. The PDP had, on Friday, named Abaribe as Minority Leader of the 9th Senate. Also named by the opposition party were Bwacha, who retained his position as Deputy Minority Leader and Aduda, who also retained his position as Minority Whip.
The principal officers are expected to assign senators to committees based on interest earlier shown by them.