Often you can hear carelessly dropped phrases like “I always wanted to try BDSM” or “I like it harder, my theme is domination” in conversations between women. In further discussions, it turns out that those who want to try BDSM do not even know what this concept means, being limited to standard stereotypes such as the purchase of handcuffs, lashes or other things in the sex shop. Most of them do not even know how far they are from perceiving physical pain or domination in the context of s!xual arousal. So, what is BDSM in fact? This is a special psychos!xual culture of relationship based on the erotic exchange of power and other forms of interaction, which, in its turn, is built on role-playing games. At the physiological level, BDSM increases s!xual arousal, but it does not always imply s!xual contact, as is commonly mistakenly thought about.  BDSM is not permissiveness, causing or accepting pain. First of all, it means the agreement of the two or more partners on what they like to feel and in what form. Also, BDSM practice implies a clear distribution of roles. Its voluntary basis – that is the most important rule of participation in BDSM role-playing games. Even severe physical pain, injury, and discomfort are a person’s choice, not a forced action.  Below I will describe few interesting BDMS examples that you can try with your partner or even by inviting another partner using threesome dating app:  There are more erogenous zones on the feet than on other parts of the body. The game can be supplemented with cream or champagne, where you will lower your toes and your man will lick them with pleasure. 63% of women, according to statistics, like spanking. Perhaps you are among them? It is important to prepare well: warm up s!xually, or play a psychological game: come up with a punishment for some act. You need to start very gently and increase the intensity gradually, never really hurting. When immobilized, we fully trust and obey our partner, which gives us a deeper s!xual sensation. You can start with a silk tie, although there are more serious options with interesting knots and variations, even the whole art of binding: shibari. But make sure that you are tied with ropes of natural material to avoid skin injury. BDSM is not always s!x. Sometimes you can warm up to the extreme point and without penetration. This is called psychological domination, when a partner tries to dominate using words. The only condition is no physical contact. Of course, while from excitement you do not pounce on each other. Here in submission both a man and a woman can be. If any of you like submission, he will only be excited by assignments that are complex and absurd, but most importantly – spoken in a firm of imperative tone.  BDSM is complete trust between people, and your friend must completely understand what he is up to. A preliminary conversation – the best way to do this.  You can also invite a more experienced partner using swingers app that will help you understand the nuances and achieve the maximum pleasure. Declining partner to experiment, it is worth considering a few points. Just do not forget, his consent should not demolish the roof to you, during the sadomasochistic games you must remain in sober mind, because you are responsible.  The main point – be ready to retreat. If your games bring discomfort to someone, it is better to finish them and try another time. Negative experience can make a person reject it for the life time.  