LOW SENTIMENTS The majority investor had announced completion of his divestment from the oil firm to power sector  S tock price of Forte Oil Plc. has recorded a 41.85 per cent drop in value since billionaire oil magnate, Femi Otedola, divested from the company, costing shareholders about N18.886 billion of their investment.  Investigation by New Telegraph also showed that Forte Oil, listed in the oil and gas sub-sector of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, closed last Friday (July 19, 2019) at N20.15 per share at N26.244 billion in market capitalisation as against the closing share price of N34.65 per share at N45.130 billion in capitalisation on June 2019, representing a loss of N18.886 billion or 41.85 per cent.   Otedola pulled out of the company last month after announcing the completion of his divestment plans as he sold off his 75 per cent stake the company.   The billionaire, in a message posted on his verified Instagram page and sighted by this newspaper, said he had divested from the business and would concentrate on his power generating business.  “A few years ago, my team and I embarked on an arduous task of transforming a moribund petroleum marketing business, African Petroleum Plc. (formerly British Petroleum) into Forte Oil Plc., a leading integrated solutions provider with solid footprints in downstream petroleum marketing, upstream services and power generation and one in which we built intrinsic value to the benefits of our shareholders.   “In line with my principle of business focus, we have divested from our marketing and upstream businesses and shall from now on focus and consolidate on the gains of our power generation business, Geregu Power Plc. We wish our successors the very best and urge them to build on our legacies, which have been established since 1964,” he said.   As part of special resolution at an extraordinary general meeting of Forte Oil Plc., shareholders of the firm had approved that the company may enter into discussions with Mr. Femi Otedola or company representing him in connection with the assets to be divested.   Forte Oil had, in a notification to the Nigerian Stock Exchange, opened up on shareholders’ approval that the company could enter into discussion with Otedola and or any company representing him in connection with the assets to be divested and subject to an independent valuation on fair value, enter into subsequent binding agreements on comparable arm’s length/ commercial terms in relation to assets to be divested.   According to the notification, “the directors and/or management of the company be and are hereby authorised to approve, sign and/or execute all documents, appoint such professional parties and advisers, as may be necessary to give effect to the above resolutions, including without limitation complying with the directives of any regulatory authority and all acts carried out, steps taken and documents executed by the Directors and/or management of the company in connection with the above resolutions and are hereby approved.   “That the company secretary be and is hereby authorized to take all steps to give effect to this resolution and where applicable to file and/or register same with Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC).”   A notification also said Otedola had reached an agreement with Prudent Energy team, investing through Ignite Investments and Commodities Limited, to divest of his full 75 per cent direct and indirect shareholding in the company’s downstream business.