Fast rising actress and film producer, Anita Caroline Odia, who is popularly called Anita Keyss is known for her role in the movie, ‘Beauty Of The Mind’. She bagged a nomination in the ‘Best Independent film supporting actress’ category at the 2018 Hollywood and African prestigious Awards. The movie ‘Beauty of the mind’ was Anita’s first movie production.  Since then, she has featured in blockbuster movies alongside top actors. She speaks with ABIOLA ALABA PETERS on how it all started and what attracts her in a man  Tell us a little bit about your background.   I was born in Lagos; I am the first of four children.  My mother is Cameroonian, while my father is a Nigerian. After graduating from high school, I attended the University of Calabar where I graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Education Why take up a career in acting when you could be doing well in education?   Acting has always been my dream and passion but I never had the opportunity. It was after I relocated from Kano to Abuja that I featured in minor roles and in 2010, I took my career as a profession after I attended acting for film training workshop in Abuja organised by New York Film Academy.   Can you recall some the challenges you encountered before finding your feet in Nollywood, and some of the jobs you have done?   I can’t really say I had challenges; acting was just my thing. As for the jobs I have done, I can’t really say much about the jobs I have done, but I have worked with some of the best directors and they are lovely people to work with.  Are you into acting on full time or do you have other things you do alongside acting? Well for now, I am into acting full time. I don’t really do anything aside from acting and producing, it may interest you to know that I also produce. But in the nearest future, I intend to do other things alongside acting and producing movies.   Mention some of the movies you’ve featured and the ones you produced?   I produced my first movie, ‘Beauty of the Mind’ (2014) where I played the role of a Supporting Actress which earned two nominations at an international film festival in London. I have featured in ‘Eno my calabar love’,’Ekwume and his investment’,’15 years of slavery’,’Ojukwu the war lord’. Then I produced my first movie in 2014 ‘Beauty of the mind’ featuring Nse Etim Ikpe, Bryan Okwara, Chinyere Wilfred, my humble self and others. I also co-produced the movie called ‘Fast Cash’, featuring Mary Lazarus, Kiki Omeli, Oma, funny bone,Tamara ,Klint de drunk myself, etc.   What’s the craziest thing a fan has ever done to you?   Wow!!! One of my fans saw my pictures and asked me if my boobs where for sale.   What are the things in your handbag you can’t do without?   I can’t do without my lipstick. Are there any actors or actresses you look forward to working with, list them and why?   I look forward to working with Ramsey Noah, Genevieve Nnaji and Omotola Ekehinde. When I see them on screen, it gives me this vibes to strive hard to be successful like them in the acting profession. Have you ever been harassed sexually by a movie producer/director or even a lesbian?   Well, harassment is common in every sector, so it has to do with you using the yes or No word if you are not desperate.   How did you feel when you had your first kiss and at what age?  I had my first kiss in 1998. I was so shy but at the same time, I felt this teenage kind of love. If a role requires you to pose nude, would you?   Capital No! I can’t pose nude not for anything.   What can you not do for a man?   I can’t fight over a man, never! How do you relax?   I do swimming for relaxation.   What is your best and favourite perfume? My favourite perfume is Pacco Rabbana, Lady One million.   Describe your taste when it comes to fashion.   I have this high taste when it’s comes to fashion but it is simple and classic.   Let us into your love life. Are you single, engaged or married? I am very much single for now.   What is your favourite designer bag?   I love the Hermes bags but don’t have one for now. I hope to get one very soon. Who is your Nigerian male celebrity crush?   I’m crushing on Lynxx the musician.   Where do you see yourself five years from now?   Five years from now, I see myself as one of the biggest movie producers in Nigeria.   What is the first thing that fascinates you about a man?   That will be his sense of fashion and style. What is your final word to your fans?   God bless them for following my movies. I really appreciate their love and support. I love them even more.