The history of military coups in Ethiopia and other countries including the Middle East and afar is almost endless. The period also covers Rome, Israel, and North Africa. However, I intend to list the military coup d’etat and coup attempt in order to show that military overthrow and the destruction of monarchies and traditional institutions is no longer en vogue with modernity and therefore should not be contemplated upon. The staging of mindless coups in contemporary times is certainly at variance with present civilisation. At present, coup plotting cannot be equated with democratic norms and values. Therefore, this write up is based on random sampling. The history of military coup dates back to ancient times to present day. In 876, a military coup led by Zimri, a military commander of Israel killed King Elah and seized power. Zimri became king who immediately committed suicide to avoid being overthrown by his own commander, Omri. In 1841, Jehu killed Jehoram of Israel and Ahaziah of Judah and became king of Israel. In the year 730 there was a failed coup which was attempted by Rezin of Aram- Damascus and Pekah of Israel. They tried to overthrow Ahaz of Judah and the House of David. In 716, king Candaules of Lydia was killed by his bodyguard, Gyges, who then assumed the throne. Gyges conspired with the wife of Candaules to stage the said coup. In 509 members of the Tarquin dynasty led by Lucius Junius Brutus overthrew King of Rome Lucius Tarquinuis Superbus and established the Roman Republic. In 411, a coup was staged in Athens. It was led by Antiphon who established a shortlived oligarchy known as the Four Hundred. In 404 coup in Athens, Critias established the short-lived pro-Spartan oligarchy known as the Thirty Tyrants. In 209 Xiongnu Emperor Modu Chanyu overthrew his father Touman and killed his rival half-brother. In 185, a coup was equally staged in Maurya Empire which controlled much of present Indian territory by Maurya General Pushyamitra Shunga. In 87 during Sulla’s first civil war, Lucius Cornelius Sulla invaded Rome and deposed Gaius Marius. In 82 in Sulla’s second civil war, Sulla again marched on Rome, removed Gaius Marius, and proclaimed himself as Roman director. In 49, Julius Caesar illegally crossed the river Rubicon heading part of the Roman army and marched on Rome. After assuming control of government, he was proclaimed “dictator in perpetuity”. In 44, on the Ides of March, Julius Caesar was assassinated by members of the Roman Senate. The conspirators did not gain control of the Roman Republic; instead, power eventually passed to the Second Triumvirate of Caesar supporters. AD 1-999, Nero was the target of many plots. Here a plaster bust conserved at the Pushkin Museum, Moscow. As-Saffah is proclaimed as the first Abbasid caliph, from Balami’s Tarikhnama. In 31, Sajanus was killed when his upcoming appointment to Emperor was disclosed as a coup. In 41, Roman Emperor Caligula was killed by his own bodyguard due to his unbalanced nature. In 65, there was the Pisonian conspiracy against Roman Emperor Nero. In 69, following Roman Emperor Nero’s death, several plots led to the year of the Four Emperors. In 249, incident at Gaoping Tombs, where Cao Shuang was captured and executed by the Sima house (Sima Yi, Sima Zhao, and Sima Shi). In Oomi Heguri no Matori usurps Yamato Japan’s government upon the death of the Okimi (ja) (Great Chieftain), now known as Emperor Ninken. Matori was killed by Otomo on Kanamura. Over a century later, the title Okimi was posthumously reassigned to the term Emperor. In 602, Maurice, emperor of the Byzantine Empire, was deposed by a conspiracy of the Balkan army led by a Thracian junior officer named Flavius Phocas, along with Maurice’s seven sons. Most of the pro- Maurice government officials and Generals were executed along with him (except Priscus and Philippicus), and Phocas was acclaimed emperor in the church of St. John the Baptist. In 610, the same Phocas who had deposed Maurice eight years earlier was deposed by a conspiracy led by the General Priscus, his son-in-law, Heraclius, the governor of North Africa. The Exarch’s son, Heraclius, deposed Phocas with the help of his cousin, Niketas. In 626 during the Xuanwu Gate Incident on 2 July, Prince Li Shimin and his close followers killed Crown Prince Li Jiancheng and Prince Li Yuanji before taking complete control of the Tang government from Emperor Gaozu. In 642, Yeon Gaesomun of Goguryeo led a military coup that killed king Yeongryu and installed king Bojang as a puppet under military rule. In 680 king Wamba of the Visigoths was drugged, tortured and dressed in the monk’s cloak, so he would be considered an ordained man and hence he could not reign. In 751 Abu Muslim Khorasani stormed Damascus and massacred the ruling Banu Umayyad family, henceforth As-Saffah became the first ruler of the Abbasid Caliphate. In 839, Jang Bogo of Silla overthrown king Minae and installed king Shnmu on the throne. In 1903, The Black Hand group, composed of military officers and led by Col. Dragutin Dimitrijevic Apis, killed Alexander l of Serbia in a coup d’etat named Majski Prevrat (May Overthrow). There have been series of coup plotting in Ethiopia till date. In recent times, a military coup was staged in Ethiopia and the army chief of staff was assassinated along with four other senior officials during a failed coup bid. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed survived a grenade attack at a rally. The coffins of army chief of staff Seare Mekonnen and a retired general, both were shot dead by Seare’s bodyguard in the national capital Addis Ababa. They were wheeled into the hall, draped in Ethiopia flags. Ethiopia has been left reeling after apparently co-ordinated attacks in Northern Amhara State. The coup plotters in Ethiopia are yet to realise that military coup plotting has become ancient and archaic and until the Ethiopia’s military are abreast with contemporary situation, they will continue to wallow in ignorance.