Few weeks after his emergence, the Senate President, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, has witnessed what could be described as a harvest of courtesy visits from both foreign and local stakeholders, Chukwu David reports  The 9th Senate was inaugurated on June 11, with Senator Ahmad Lawan, representing Yobe North, emerging the President of the Senate, and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege of Delta Central emerging the Deputy President of the Senate Unlike in the 8th Assembly, where the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), shared the two presiding offices with the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with Senator Bukola Saraki (APC, Kwara Central), emerging the President of the Senate, and Senator Ike Ekweremadu (PDP, Enugu West), elected the Deputy President of the Senate, the APC did not give room for such inter-party alliance in the leadership of the 9th National Assembly. Lawan, who is the APC preferred candidate for Senate Presidency, defeated Senator Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South), after polling a total of 79 votes against his challenger, who scored a total of 28 votes. Ndume was adopted by the PDP as its candidate in the race but some of the PDP senators sold out and supported Lawan, resulting in the wide margins of votes. Omo-Agege also floored Ekweramadu, in the Deputy Senate presidential election, where he defeated his opponent by 68 votes to 37 votes. It was really a big shock to Nigerians because Ekweremadu never gave any signal that he would present himself for the election. Meanwhile, in less than one week after the new leadership emerged in the Senate, the President of the Senate has witnessed what can be described as harvest of courtesy visits from both the foreign and local scenes. The first team of visitors to meet Lawan as the President of the 9th Senate, was the European Union Election Observers Mission (EUEOM), which visited him on June 18, 2019. The team came to present the report of the 2019 general elections to the leadership of the Senate. While presenting the report, the European Union Election Observers Mission berated the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the conduct of the 2019 general elections, pointing out that the process lacked transparency. Responding, Lawan assured his visitors that the 9th National Assembly would prioritize credible and acceptable electoral processes which would meet the best practices for the citizenry. He told the team led by Ambassador Keitec Karlsen in his office at the National Assembly, Abuja, that Nigerian government attached great importance to electioneering process, noting that every election availed stakeholders in elections processes lessons to learn.  He also commended the European Union Mission for the recommendations provided on the last elections, saying that Nigerians would learn from the observations and recommendations of the Mission. Lawan further called on the Mission to continue to support Nigeria in her effort to improve on her electoral process and also to help the country in capacity building of the country’s parliamentarians. Exactly one week later, on June 25 precisely, the Nigerian Senators’ Forum paid him another courtesy visit in Abuja, where he assured Nigerians that the 9th National Assembly under his leadership, would return the country to January to December budget circle. To achieve this objective, Lawan said that the apex legislative assembly would ensure that budget was passed within three months of its presentation by the President. He also stated that the Parliament would liaise with the President to ensure that the budget proposals were presented to the lawmakers in the last week of September or latest the first week of October in any fiscal year. He said: “The Senate is determined to ensure that Nigeria returns to the January to December budget process. We have to work together and archive what needs to be archived for Nigerians. “We know the challenges and we will work hard to ensure that we get the solution. This Senate is determined to ensure for example we pass the budget in three months and we believe this is achievable and double. “All we require is for the executive to provide the appropriation bill in good time, maybe at the end of September or early week of October. The National Assembly will seat to ensure that there is defence of the budget by the MDAs and before we live for Christmas, we will ensure that the budget is passed, so that we go back to the January to Decemeber budget cycle.” The Chairman of the Forum, Senator Khariat Gwadabe, said that the meeting was a unique opportunity for them to interface with the President of the Senate, expressing confidence in the capacity of the Lawan, having spent 20 years in the parliament, pointing out that the Forum was ready to support the 9th assembly. Also, on the same day, the President of the Senate, received in audience, the Inspector General of Police, Muhammad Adamu, led management team of the Force Headquarters, Abuja, as the team also came to pay him a courtesy visit. Lawan, assured the Police boss and his team that the National Assembly was committed to giving adequate funding support required by the Nigeria Police Force, to facilitate optimal performance by the officers and men of the force. He noted that the idea of separate budgetary provisions for state police commands would further help in addressing security challenges in the country. Lawan further assured Adamu on the early passage of the Police Reform Bill, Police Academy Bill and smooth implementation of the Police Trust Fund, to create more responsive and efficient police force in the country. He also said that “the Police needs to be restructured, including the separate appropriations being canvassed for the state police commands by the Inspector General of Police”. Earlier, the IGP had requested the support of the Senate for better funding of the Police, including separate budgetary provisions for the state police commands so as to improve on the security situation in the country. Adamu also asked for the quick passage of the Police Reform Bill and the Police Academy Bill which he stressed would enhance the performance of the Force. Furthermore, 24 hours after the Police chief and his lieutenants visited the President of the Senate, the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Mr Umar Ibrahim, and the Management of the agency also visited Lawan in a courtesy visit. Ibrahim used the opportunity to reveal that about 60% of Nigerians had no access to finance, in spite of proliferation of Commercial Banks in the country over the years, while also insisting that, for the people to be taken out of poverty, their inclusion in financial accessibility must be made a top priority by the present administration. In his remarks, Lawan, assured that the 9th National Assembly would work on the Act, which the 8th Assembly was not able to finish while also tasking the NDIC and the banking sector in general to provide the required financial facilities for Nigerians interested in Agriculture, in line with the diversification policy of the present government. Just this Monday, the President of the Senate played host to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha and some Permanent Secretaries from the Presidency. During his interaction with the SGF, Lawan noted with dismay, the loopholes inherent in the 2007 Public Procurement Act, which he alleged, bred corruption in the system as well as frustrated project implementation in the country. He, however, promised that the Senate under his leadership, would embark on a holistic review of the Act in the next few months to address the defects in the legislation. Lawan said that review of the Act would be targeted at sanitising the entire process of contract awards and executions in Nigeria, so that the process would no longer be business as usual in the near future. According to him, the Act in its present position, is frustrating as far as the process of contract awards and execution in the country were concerned, stressing that holistic review and amendments were urgently required, assuring that it would commence in the Senate soon. Earlier, the SGF commended the President of the Senate for starting on a vibrant note, expressing optimism that the different arms of government especially the executive and the legislature, would work in harmony for the benefit of the people under the current administration. Mustapha charged the Senators to always put the nation first, promising that the executive arm was determined to ensuring a successful tenure of office for the leadership of the National Assembly and its members. Lawan has given Nigerians series of assurances that the 9th Senate would be more effective than the last assembly, people oriented and would work towards doing thing differently, to be able to help deliver good governance to Nigerians. The electorate will expect him and his team to live up to his promises because at the end of four years, he will be assessed and judged by the promises he made on assumption of office. 