 About seven local and foreign firms have joined the race for the Engineering, Procurement Contract (EPC -2) package project for Bonga South West Aparo project, which is projected to cost $10 billion. The firms including McDermott, Saipem, Subsea 7 and TechnipFMC, checks by New Telegeaph shows, are set to submit bids by the end of this month for the project, which will be for upward of $1billion. BSWA’s umbilicals, single-point mooring system and subsea production system are subject to separate bid processes, with TechnipFMC, BHGE, and OneSubsea thought to be chasing the latter, which is centred on more than 20 wells. On February 14th, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo) had announced the release of Invitation to Tender (ITT) to contractors for the development of the Bonga South West Aparo (BSWA) oil field. The project’s initial phase includes a new FPSO vessel, more than 20 deep-water wells, and related subsea infrastructure. The field lies across Oil Mining Leases 118, 132 and 140, about 15km southwest of the existing Bonga Main FPSO. The ITT is for engineering, procurement and construction contracts for the 150,000 barrels per day project in the Gulf of Guinea. “This is a new vista for deep offshore oil and gas exploration in Nigeria based on a revised commercial framework embraced by government and the project investors,” Bayo Ojulari, SNEPCo’s managing director, said on 14 February. 2018 – a day after the execution of the Heads of Terms by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), SNEPCo and its Unit partners, revising the terms of the OML 118 Production Sharing Contract, in a media release of February 14, 2019, signed by Bamidele Odugbesan, media relations manager at Shell Plc stated on the super oil major’s website. Ojulari said, “SNEPCo has concluded OML 118 negotiations with the NNPC. We now have a clear commercial framework, supported by the government and project investors, toward a potential Bonga South West Aparo Final Investment Decision (FID).” After nearly two months extension, contractors have started a renewed race to meet the July 31 deadline to submit their technical and commercial bids aimed at supplying a floating production, storage, and offloading vessel for Shell’s $10 billion Bonga South West Aparo (BSWA) project. Three contractors with active interest in supplying the 150,000 barrels per day FPSO include South Korea’s Samsung Heavy Industries, with a base-case proposal, said to involve using the SHI-MCI yard in Lagos, which most recently handled the FPSO integration work on Total’s Egina project. A consortium of China’s Offshore Oil Engineering Company (COOEC) and Italy’s Saipem are also in the race. Iain Esau and Xu Yihe, analysts at Upstreamonline.com, an online platform that provides oil and gas news, reported July 4 that an informed source said COOEC would build the topsides but would outsource hull fabrication work to other yards in China. Saipem will deal with the challenging local content aspect of the project. A third group believed to be preparing to submit bid documents is China’s CIMC Raffles and Monobuoy, a Lagos-based engineering concern with a United States of America parent company. CIMC was previously expected to tie up with Kavin Engineering and NOV, and it is not known if these two contractors remain involved.pp