The House of Representatives recently advised President Muhammadu Buhari to optimize Nigeria’s signing of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCTA). PHILIP NYAM reviews the deliberations   Last week, the House of Representatives joined millions of Nigerians in commending President Muhammadu Buhari for finally signing the act ratifying the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCTA).  It would be recalled that the ACFTA was introduced in March 2018. African leaders from 44 African nations gathered at the African Union Summit between March 17 and 21, 2018 in Kigali, Rwanda, and signed the Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCTA) treaty to create the world’s largest single market.   The agreement is said to be the largest trade agreement in history since the creation of the World Trade Organisation. Out of 55 African countries, 52 have signed the agreement and 18 have ratified it. Twenty-two countries are required to ratify the agreement for it to come into effect.  Before President Buhari signed the agreement, many Nigerians were agitated at the somewhat reluctance or delay by the government in attending to the issue.   Former President Olusegun Obasanjo had in June this year urged the government not to hesitate in signing the agreement. He said: “Nigeria had no justifiable reason why it had not signed the agreement as countries like Eritrea, Niger and even Benin that are our neighbours have signed it.”   Many had expected that Nigeria needed to sign the agreement in order to regain its rightful place as the leader of the continent. According to a former Vice President of African Development Bank (ADB) and former director, World Bank Group, Aloysius Uche Ordu, “Nigeria has used its political heft, economic power, and diplomatic and intellectual pedigree to seize the mantle of leadership that changed the course of African history.”   It will be recalled that at the 2019 World Economic Forum, President Paul Kagame of Rwanda and President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa were showcased as leaders in the new global context. And on the AFCTA, both made compelling points.   Experts have agreed that with 1.2 billion people in the 55 countries that make up Africa, the benefits of working together are far superior to operating as small, fragmented markets in the new global order.   Again, it is believed that AFCTA will open enormous opportunities for the manufacturing sector and for small, medium, and large businesses. This, they further noted, will boost intra-area trade, create jobs, enhance skills development, and ensure best practices through smart competition among countries.   The commendation   The House of Representatives at its plenary hailed President Buhari for signing the African Continental Free Trade Agreement even as it urged the government to ensure that Nigeria optimises expected benefits from the agreement.   The House also resolved that the committees on special duties and commerce, when constituted will ensure implementation. The resolution followed the adoption of a motion brought by Hon. Segun Odebunmi (APC, Oyo).   Leading debate on the motion, Odebunmi noted that President Buhari, at the extra-ordinary session of the Assembly of African Union Heads of States and Governments in Niamey, Niger Republic on July 7, signed the pact to establish the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCTA) on behalf of the government and people of Nigeria.   He said that the President, while signing the agreement, stated that the Nigerian government will seek to include terms that will engender the development of policies that will promote African production, among other policies, while reiterating that what Africa needs goes beyond trade policy, but includes a manufacturing agenda as well as attracting investments and combating smuggling.   The lawmaker said he believed that President Buhari deserves commendation for signing the trade agreement with significant caution on the need to prevent excessive prosperity for importing nations along the coasts, while landlocked nations will continue to suffer.   According to him, “Nigeria, as the largest economy in Africa should, in line with the agreement, define various ways to optimize benefits accruable from the pact by ensuring that its exports to other African markets surpass its imports in order for it to have positive effects on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), balance of trade payments and employment generation objectives.   “He also believes that if that is not done, the nation could be turned into a dumping ground for products from other African countries, a development that will be adverse to the nation’s macroeconomic objectives”   Supporting the motion, Hon. Onofiok Luke (PDP, Akwa Ibom) stated that the government should put in place specific developmental measures that will ensure that the Nigerian manufacturing sector is revived, security and power are guaranteed, taxes, tariffs and levies are well structured, while transport and infrastructural development should also be encouraged.   The pact aims to boost intra-African trade by making Africa a single market of 1.2 billion people and a cumulative GDP over $3.4 trillion. The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) estimates that the implementation of the agreement could increase intra-African trade by 52 per cent by 2022, compared with trade levels in 2010 and double the share of intra-African trade currently around 13 per cent of Africa’s exports by the start of the next decade.   According to a research paper published by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in February 2018, the AFCTA offers many opportunities for sustainable development and economic growth in the African economies. However, not all countries will benefit to the same extent, and the gain of welfare benefits also implicates relevant costs and commitments.   Before now, among the AU member states yet to sign the pact are Nigeria and South Africa. Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, Zambia, Burundi, Eritrea, Benin, Sierra Leone and Guinea Bissau are other member-countries that did not sign the pact.   Under the AFCTA, governments commit to removing tariffs on 90 per cent of goods produced within the continent. The next step for the governments is to ratify the AFCTA in their countries within the next six months.   With the AFCTA, there will be a single continental market for goods and services, with free movement of business professionals and investments, accelerating the establishment of the Continental Customs Union and the African customs union.   It will also expand intra-African trade through better harmonization and coordination of trade liberalization and facilitation across Regional Economic Communities (RECs) and across Africa.   It is also the position of economic experts that most of the benefits of further trade integration – welfare benefits from lower import prices, production efficiency and increase in outputs,  higher value-added jobs and exports and technological specialization, among others will materialize in the long term, while most of the associated costs of adjustment and integration – loss in trade tariff revenue, local SME’s vanishing in front of stronger competition, adjusting unemployment, required investment in infrastructure as well as political and regulatory reforms  will be incurred in the short term.   It is also estimated that a full Free Trade Agreement (FTA) eliminating all tariffs in the AFCTA could generate welfare gains of $16.1 billion at the cost of $4.1 billion in trade revenue losses, representing 9.1 per cent of current tariff revenues.  Equally, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and employment are expected to grow by 0.97 per cent and 1.17 per cent respectively. Intra-African trade growth is estimated at 33 per cent and the continent’s trade deficit is expected to drop by 50.9 per cent.   These anticipated benefits, notwithstanding, how far the nation will fare with the signing of this agreement will depend on the policies it will put in place to maximize the opportunities presented by the AFCTA.  