As Senate commenced the screening of Ministerial nominees Wednesday, a group, Ondo All Progressives Congress (APC) Solidarity, has asked the Senators not to confirm the nominee of the Ondo State, Senator Tayo Alasoadura.
The group also called the President, Muhammadu Buhari to withdraw the nomination of Senator Alasoadura, stating that it is injurious to Ondo people and APC in general.
According to a statement signed by the group’s National Coordinator and National Secretary, Gbenga Bojuwomi and Alhaji Ibrahim Sikiru respectively, they premised their call upon what they described as disloyalty to the present administration and party by the former lawmaker.
The group alleged that the nominee, when he was in the 8th Senate connived with the then President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki to pervert the policies of the present government, adding that he also worked closely with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu to foist Action Alliance (AA) in Ondo State that eventually affected the victory of Mr. President himself.
“As Nigerians, most especially people of Ondo State look forward to the ministerial nominee who can turn things around in the country and Ondo State, it is extremely sad that the fulfillment of our expectations is abolished by nominating Senator Tayo Alasoadura as a nominee from Ondo State.
“It is quite clear that President Buhari who is supposed to be our role model as youth does not follow his words to the logical end. Mr. President had few days again categorically issued a statement that he would only use those whom he knows and that are loyal party members this time around as ministers.
“Is it not evidently clear now that the choice of Alasoadura, someone who connived with Saraki in the 8th Senate to pervert the policies of this Government, and also who worked closely with Governor Akeredolu to foist Action Alliance (AA) in Ondo State that eventually samasulted the victory of Mr. President himself, will endanger the party and constitute continuous misdirection in Nigeria at large,” the statement read.
According to the group, the action of President Buhari to nominate Senator Alasoadura from Ondo State is capable of weakening the party in the state and make it redundant.
They argued that if given the ministerial opportunity there is no doubt the nominee in connivance with Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi whose 2023 Presidential ambition is not hidden will flourish the opposition party, they supported last election, Action Alliance (AA).