Mr. Olanrewaju Suraju is the chairman of Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA). He speaks on the returned General Sani Abacha’s loot, the withdrawal of corruption charges against former Governor of Gombe State, Senator Danjuma Goje and insecurity, among other issues. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  What is your take on the perception that history of the recovered loot from late Head of State, General Sani Abacha is laced with corruption? Do you agree with those who opined that the Abacha loot has been re-looted over time by successive governments? The history of that fund which is an average of over $4billion has its substantial part actually re-looted among the governments of Abdulsalam Abubakar, Olusegun Obasanjo and some of them by Goodluck Jonathan. These administrations re-looted a substantial part of the recovery because there is no evidence of either the money or the utilization of those funds. This one has started and that is why the civil society cried out seriously when the $321million was returned to Nigeria. We didn’t just cry within; we also cried to the international community to say we don’t want a repeat of the past. So, when the $321million was to be returned to the government of Muhammadu Buhari, civil society members were there where the World Bank, governments of the United States and Switzerland and the Attorney-General of Nigeria signed the agreement and how the fund will be spent was agreed upon. What was the agreement like? The Nigerian government was given the option of saying this is where and how we are going to utilise the funds. The civil society actually opposed the idea of conditionality where our people will just be treated like second-class world citizens by giving conditions to how we spend our stolen funds that were recovered from their system. We also opposed them on the ground that not only that they don’t return the monies with interest after staying in their countries after 20 years and more. But the fact that we got the money, we want to deal with the internal challenges first before we face the international community to start asking for compensation for the fact that the money was revolving within their system and businesses were transacted with the money; we deserve to get interest on the monies. If you keep money in the bank, you get interest. Also, the fact that some of those banks that allowed for the flow of the illicit funds from Nigeria are still not sanctioned by those countries and there is a need to have that done. That was the reason why a re-looting of the Abacha loot could happen. The funds were re-looted by some public office holders who took them again back to those countries and their banks.  It looks as if the public is not well informed about the processes involved in the returned loot hence they couldn’t engage the system accordingly? The public outcry is justified but there is a need to also engage the system. That was one of the reasons we had a programme in Abuja recently and it was to have an accountability process of the government representative who was in charge of the social programme that the government promised the world that it wants to commit the fund to and see what has been done. So, figures were given and data were provided; so it is left for Nigerians to interrogate the data and start a process of challenging those facts, either confirming them or controverting them. Recovering the looted funds of late Abacha should be commended, but there are still many rivers to cross. Many loose ends are yet to be tied. These funds passed through the banking system, they were not shipped abroad; the funds were withdrawn from Nigerian financial system definitely with the collaboration of some officials. These are grave questions that Nigerians should ask. A comprehensive probe into the past will strengthen public confidence that criminals of yesteryears will not be allowed to live with the impression that you can live in peace at the expense of misery and extreme poverty their acts of corruption had nurtured.  What does withdrawal of charges against former governor Gombe State, Senator Danjuma Goje by the Federal Government portends for the fight against corruption by the current administration? Since 2015, the Danjuma Goje issue has reversed the credibility of President Buhari and it has also challenged the commitment of the President to the fight against corruption. It has eroded the sincerity of the President and because people still understand the fact that political parties are an association of the same set of people that have been part of the rots of the past. The only slack that people cut the government is in the President and that is due to his track record of uprightness and performance as a military Head of State. There is no justification for this decision. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is doing a great job through diligent prosecution. The sudden decision of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) to take over the case is suspicious. It sends wrong signals to local and international communities that vested political interests are bent on sabotaging the efforts of the EFCC and the entire gamut of the anti-corruption campaign. This is why we have said in the civil society that we won’t allow this to stand.  What measure is civil society; especially Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) putting up to ensure you won’t allow it to stand? HEDA has sent a petition to the President of United States (U.S.), Donald Trump, through the U.S. Secretary of State, Mr. Michael Pompeo, and the U.S. Embassy in Nigeria calling for the immediate withdrawal of the U.S. entry Visa issued to Goje, and in absence of a valid visa, denies him the issuance of one. Our point in the petition is that granting a U.S. visa to Goje undermines the global efforts at fighting corruption. We wrote the request to demand that a man of this kind of political standing with dirty stains of corruption allegations should not be allowed to hold an American Visa or if he already has one, it should be revoked. Do you think only that will suffice? Not only that, we have given the Federal Government an ultimatum to either prosecute Goje or face court action and public protest. The international community would be notified of this subversion of the rule of law and justice by the present regime. Bilateral laws and agreement between Nigeria and other foreign nations will be explored to expose both the government and the suspect. Constitutional provision on Nolle Prosqui is not to pervert justice but protect the public interest. The withdrawal is in bad taste and this group will deploy all the constitutional legal means to defend the public interest in this particular case.  There was a report of recent theft of cash running into hundreds of millions by some soldiers detailed to escort a large amount of cash said to belong to a top government official. What is your take on this? The alleged stealing of the money by soldiers who should represent a qualitative moral fabric of the country has raised serious questions about Nigeria’s commitment to the fight against corruption. Nigerians need full disclosure on the scandal because it is a national embarrassment. The National Assembly should probe this incidence. The House Committee on Defense needs to provide the necessary clue. There is no doubt that the action of these soldiers will have a serious impact on the campaign against terrorism. The Senate should get to the root of this matter before it is too late. If nothing is done, other soldiers on the frontline may be encouraged to embark on stealing of national assets. We call on the National Assembly to treat this issue as a top priority. Who are these soldiers? How much was the money involved? Who owns the money? Is the money owned by an individual or by the country? Is the money the proceeds of crime? There are many questions waiting to be answered. There have been calls for a national summit on security and the Senate also reinforced that call recently. What is your take on this especially with the heightened state of insecurity in the country? With profound respect, the call is completely escapist and diversionary. Not too long ago, a former President regularly convened security meetings to address the security challenges facing the country when he was in power. But under his watch, the country witnessed the highest rate of politically motivated killings in the history of the country because the recommendations of the security summits were never implemented. On February 8, 2018 the Senate convened a well attended national security summit at Abuja. The executive branch of the Federal government participated at the summit. Incidentally, Senator Ahmed Lawan was the Chairman of the ad hoc Committee set up by the Senate to review the security situation in the country. The committee submitted a report with far-reaching recommendations. But apart from the enactment of the Police Security Fund the other recommendations of the committee have not been implemented. Furthermore, on June 8, 2019, the Executive convened a security summit attended by the President, Vice President, the 36 state governors and Service Chiefs to review the security situation in the country. The resolution of the summit has not been implemented. Therefore, instead of calling for the setting up of another security summit the Senate under the leadership of Senator Lawan should implement the resolutions of the Senate and the recommendations of the executive on national security. The National Assembly should end the official hypocrisy by ensuring that the Constitution is amended to allow each government to establish a State Police Service to secure the life and property of the Nigerian people. As a matter of urgency, the National Assembly should appropriate a Special Security Fund for the recruitment and training of police personnel without any further delay.