The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Atiku Abubakar and his party yesterday lost their bid to re-open a fresh argument to challenge the objection filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to their petition.
It was the view of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal that Atiku and PDP cannot be allowed to reopen argument, especially to file counter affidavit on the objection made against their petition because the mandatory seven days to do so had expired.
The APC, through its counsel, Prince Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), had filed a motion, dated May 15, in which it prayed the tribunal to strike out the entire petition of the PDP candidate on the ground that the petition did not comply with relevant laws.
In the alternative, Fagbemi had, on June 11, while moving the motion, prayed in the alternative that several paragraphs in the petition be removed for being vague and cannot be supported by law.
Among others, Fagbemi listed 10 states in Atiku and PDP’s petition where specific allegations known to law were made while he also urged the tribunal to strike out the allegations against the Nigerian Army, Nigeria Police, and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who were alleged to have committed acts of violence on Election Day in favour of President Muhammadu Buhari, but were not joined in the petition.
The 10 states are Borno, Yobe, Niger, Katsina, Bauchi, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Gombe and Kebbi.
Although the legal team of Atiku and his party, led by Dr. Levi Uzoukwu (SAN) filed notice of objection, the team, however, failed to file counter affidavit to deny the claim of the APC in its motion.
In the bid to rectify the error, the petitioners’ counsel had filed a motion in which the tribunal was prayed to set aside the proceedings of June 11 when APC’s motion challenging the competence of Atiku’s petition was moved.
The PDP legal team claimed that Atiku and PDP were denied right to fair hearing and that the APC caused confusion when it filed two motions dated May 14 and May 15 on same issue, but later withdrew that of May 14.
The team urged the tribunal to allow them to reopen argument and to grant them leave to file counter affidavit against the APC motion.
All the respondents opposed the request to reopen argument and to file counter affidavit on the ground that time to do so had expired by law.
However, in the ruling delivered by the chairman, Justice Mohammed Lawal Garba, the tribunal agreed with Fagbemi that the mandatory seven days for Atiku to respond to APC motion on the competence of his petition had expired.
Justice Garba held that it was established beyond doubt that Atiku’s legal team was served with APC’s motion on May 16, a day after it was filed and that it was a fatal error and mistake for Atiku’s team to have chosen and elected to file only notice of objection, but refused to file counter affidavit as required by law to dispute the claims of the APC.
The tribunal also disagreed with Atiku that he was denied right to fair hearing because his legal team was adequately represented in all the proceedings and chose to conduct their case the way it suited them.
Justice Garba held that the proceedings of June 11 as they relate to the APC’s motion challenging the competence of Atiku’s petition cannot be set aside by the tribunal because cogent and verifiable reasons to grant such request of setting the proceedings aside were not advanced by the PDP legal team.
“We agreed that the court has the power to exercise discretion, but in the instant case, the discretion has to be exercised judicially and judiciously and since the petitioner in this matter did not advance cogent and verifiable reasons for exercising discretion in his favour, we hereby refuse to do so.
“We also agreed that court decisions or proceedings can only be set aside in the face of fraud, lack of fact, lack of jurisdiction and absence of substantial reason or where it is established that the court had been misled, and at instant matter, no evidence was advanced to justify the failure of the petitioner to comply with mandatory seven days within which to respond or to oppose the motion duly served on him on May 16.
“From the established fact, the petitioner failed to make out case for setting aside proceedings of June 11 and also failed even up till today to file counter affidavit, therefore, the motion by the petitioner that his argument be reopened is bound to fail and is hereby dismissed for lacking in merit,” the judge held.
Meanwhile, the petitioners will, today, begin to call their witnesses to testify in support of their petition challenging the February 23 election which produced President Buhari.
The tribunal announced this yesterday at the closure of the pre-hearing session in respect of the petition.
Addressing counsel in the petition, Justice Garba said: “You will recall on Monday that you indicated that trial should begin on Thursday.
“In line with that, the pre-hearing session for this petition will have to end today (Wednesday) to enable us to commence trial in respect of this petition from Thursday, July 4, 2019.
“It is on that basis that I will now present the report of the pre-hearing session.”
He consequently closed the pre-hearing court session.