Aformer Director General of the Deparment of State Services (DSS), Mr. Afakirya Gadzama, has accused security agencies in the country of allegedly deceiving the government about the true state of affairs. According to Gadzama, the absence of integrity and honestly among security managers, was largely responsible for the myriad of security challenges confronting the country. The former spymaater made this position yesterday at the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS) in Abuja. This was as the former DG SS, who delivered the Distinguished Lecture, called for the design of a new national security architecture, maintaining that the contemporary security challenges could not be successfully tackled with the existing structure. “One of the major challenges of current security challenges is the absence of integrity, truthfulness and honest advice to leadership. “Like I said, there is so much indictment of the national security establishment, because of some of these reasons, where we become very untruthful. We can’t tell the government the truth. “I was just telling the Director of the Institute what has happened in the past, where the security agencies kept on giving the impression that insurgency was being defeated, and that they were on top of the problem”, Gadzama said. He drew attention to what he considered the “deceit” that the security operatives were on top of the situation in the North East, until Boko Haram fighters extended their blood-letting campaign to Abuja. “Until Boko Haram emerged in Nyanya and burnt the Police Headquarters, and the UN office. So, these are the kinds of things we are talking about. “Security, I believe, can do without deceit…We have to guide against this. I’m aware that for those of you who are from mainstream security agencies, law enforcement agencies, and the Armed Forces, that we need to be truthful”, he said. He further argued that the banditry in the North West was caused by “bad governance”, as well as misapplication of public funds. His words: “We just finished a research looking into the problems of the banditry in the North West, and this is precisely the point. The security agencies, for whatsoever reasons, feel shy and don’t tell the truth about the actual situation on the ground. “Threats in those states are mainly as a result of bad governance, misuse of government resources and public funds.” On his part, the DG SS, Mr. Yusuf Bichi, who was represented by Mrs. Folasade Adekayoaja, said the Course participants were drawn from 21 organisations. Also speaking, the Commandant of the NISS, Alhaji A.S Adeleke, said since its establishment, the institute, which was recently upgraded to a national status, has been providing intellectual and strategic knowledge on approaches to tackling insecurity. This year’s distinguished lecture was entitled: “Contemporary Security Challenges and the Survival of Nigerian State”.