…spends N49bn on salary of 506 agencies  The Federal Government has pooled N10 trillion across 1,674 Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) into the Treasury Single Account (TSA). The TSA scheme has also led to saving of over N450 billion monthly in interest on ways and means, and another N50 billion revenue from funds mopped from Money Deposit Banks (DMBs). Also, the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) confirmed yesterday, in Abuja that the Implementation of Integrated Payroll and Personnel System (IPPIS) platform by the central government across 506 MDAs with staff strength of 344,625 cost government N49,071,959.15 kobo  salary as at September 2018. The government has saved over N288 billion from April 2007 when IPPIS commenced till date. Latest facts on TSA and IPPIS implementation came to fore yesterday from slide presented by Director of Information Technology Department of OAGF, Mr. Afolabi Ajayi, at a peer review mechanism of MDAs to Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HOSF), Mrs. Winifred Ekanem Oyo-Ita. The HOSF led her management team on a visit to the AGF, Mallam Ahmed Idris. Ajayi said the IPPIS scheme was one of the Federal Government’s reform initiatives designed to achieve a centralised payroll system of the Federal Government. He said that the IPPIS also facilitated easy storage, updating and retrieval of personal records for administrative and pensions processing to aid manpower planning and budgeting as well as to comply with global best practice. “The IPPIS has made it possible for prompt and regular payment of salaries to public servants. The system has also facilitated prompt deductions and remittances to the accounts of all third parties stakeholders such as PFAs, NHIS, NHF and cooperative societies. “506 MDAs with total staff strength of 344,625 are on the IPPIS platform with the gross pay of about N49.07 billion as at September 2018,” he disclosed. Ajayi disclosed that N50 billion had, so far, been mopped up from commercial banks as a result of TSA implementation. “Other achievements recorded since TSA became fully operational include the elimination of cash handling costs and ability to determine consolidated Federal Government cash position. “There has also been significant improvement on Federal Government liquidity position, improved revenue collection mechanism through e-collection and better cash management capabilities,” he said. “We are also to recommend those assets to be disposed of, regenerated, or relocated to other centres that need them,” he said. Earlier in his remark, Idris said his office was aware of HOS commitment to peer review mechanism, which, he said, was a panacea to inefficiency in service delivery across all the MDAs. He informed Oyo-Ita and her team that the OAGF is fully digitalized with all its functions hinging on IT and infrastructure. Responding, Oyo-Ita lauded the AGF for implementation of IPPIS. She said more funds would be saved by the government by the time impending mop up exercise is concluded across MDAs. “By the time we complete ongoing human resources and through with the mop up, the saving will be more than N200 billion. We are still going to do more mop up for those that are yet to be captured on IPPIS”, she said.