President Muhammadu Buhari and top managers of financial institutions in the country have endorsed new capital threshold announced for insurance firms by the sector regulator, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), saying the move is in order.
Top finance managers who threw their weights at NAICOM include, Managing Director, Access Bank Plc., Herbert Wigwe and the Director-General of the Budget Office of the Federation Mr. Ben Akabueze .
NAICOM had, in a circular to insurance firms, announced new capital requirements for operators in the insurance sector.
In the new capital requirements, life insurance companies’ capital was raised from N2 billion to N8 billion, general companies got a raise from N3 billion to N10 billion, while composite insurance companies’ capital was raised from N5 billion to N18 billion.
NAICOM jerked up the capital of reinsurance companies from N10 billion to N20 billion with a deadline fixed at June 30, 2020.
Declaring open the national insurance conference yesterday in Abuja, President Buhari said the recapitalization directive would make the insurance industry to be more responsive to the objectives of his administration to the economy.
The conference with theme, “Disruption, innovation and business growth”, was organised by the Insurance Industry Consultative Council.
The president was represented by Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Dr. Mahmoud Isa-Dutse.
Buhari stated that increase in capital will enable local risk retention, and prompt payment of claims.
“The insurance sector plays a vital role in the financial sector because it reduces the poverty line, assist people to manage their risks, protect them from adverse effects due to unforeseen circumstances and increases access to other financial services.
“This administration is very passionate about these and the ministry will continue to closely monitor activities in the sector. With the recapitalization directive issued recently, we expect operators to be true to themselves and consider all opportunities available for continued existence,” he said.
He explained that: “While this will include mergers and acquisitions, it should not include fighting the policy just because you cannot raise the original capital.
“Your industry should be more responsive to the desires of the economy. The insurance industry can do more to contribute to the development of the economy. It can do more in reaching more uninsured and financially disadvantaged segments of the society; it can do more to the creation of employment and, indeed, it can do more to support the Nigerian ecosystem.”
Wigwe, who was the guest speaker, said the recapitalisation of the sector announced by NAICOM was overdue.
He said new capital base will strengthen industry’s capacity to underwrite transactions in sectors such as oil and gas, marine, aviation and technology.
On his part, Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari, noted that reforms have been accentuated by the disruptive impact on the insurance industry of a series of digital innovations in areas such as online sales, technologies and machine.