 Following the protracted face-off between the management and non-academic workers’ union of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu, Lagos, the management has called on the members of the striking workers’ unions to abide by the order of the National Industrial Court over the lingering issues.
The non-academic staff unions, including Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics (SSANIP) and Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) were also urged by the management to have a rethink on their planned attacks on members of academic staff, who are going about their normal academic activities.
The industrial court, according to the management, led by its Rector, Mr. Oluyinka Sogunro, had directed the unions to maintain and ensure peace on the campuses of the polytechnic (Ikorodu, Isolo and Surulere), while their case against the Lagos State Government and the polytechnic management goes through the full scale of adjudication.
The polytechnic, in a statement by its Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mr. Olanrewaju Kuye, a
Deputy Registrar, Information and Public Relations, and which was made available to New Telegraph, noted that the call was on the heels of an audio recording making rounds in which is inciting the non-academic against the academic staff members, who have been working in ensuring that the academic calendar was not truncated, while the students graduate to time and mobilise for the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) scheme.
“In the same vein, the striking members of staff of the polytechnic are advised to respect the Freedom of Association and allow the academic staff members and other willing staff members to carry out their primary assignments without any form of molestation or harassment,” the statement added.
The management, however, frowned at the attitude of one Mr. Salami Gbenga, parading himself as the Vice Chairman of Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) and said to be the only academic staff member among the striking workers, saying that he had ceased to be an official of the academic union owing to the dissolution of the union executive in 2017.
“Hence he is advised to stop indulging and instigating the non-academic staff against the academic staff or working in alliance with others for the same purpose to disrupt the system,” the statement warned.
The striking members of staff, according to Kuye, are, therefore, admonished to listen to wise counsels, embrace dialogue and wait for the outcome of the Head of Service (HoS), Lagos State House of Assembly and the National Industrial Court to conclude their efforts at proffering lasting solution to the crisis of CONTISS 15 Migration, which has been the contentious issue.
Meanwhile, the statement recalled that the agitation for the implementation of Consolidated Tertiary Institution Salary Structure (CONTISS 15) Migration by the non-academic staff unions is issue that NASU and SSANIP had been using since 2016 to foment troubles in the polytechnic.
The Statement, entitled: LASPOTECH Management Charges Striking Unions To Respect Court Order and Freedom of Association, said: “CONTISS 15 Migration is the movement of staff from one salary grade level to the next level provided members of staff meet the necessary conditions, stipulated by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), such as that the staff must have been employed before 1st August 2009; such staff must possess the basic academic/professional or both qualifications applicable to his/her competence in addition to compliance to institutional policy; such staff must have spent a minimum of two years on the current position before the year of migration.
“The polytechnic acted on the Lagos State Executive Council’s directive in line with the Guidelines of the National Board for Technical Education. All members of staff that met the requirements have been duly migrated, while those that failed to meet same requirements were appropriately placed.
“The grouse of the unions was that they wanted the management to migrate all staff with no recourse to the NBTE’s guidelines and approval of the state government simply because some of the union leaders did not meet the requirements. The management hereby assures all students, staff and the general public that adequate measures had been put in place to ensure that the three campuses of the polytechnic remain calm, peaceful and conducive for the smooth running of all academic and administrative activities.
“It should also be noted that recourse by these few workers on self-help through intimidation, threats and incitement of law abiding staff would be curtailed by adequate measures of caution as permitted by the law.”