Police in Enugu State have arrested 31 people for various offences which range from armed robbery, murder, kidnapping, cultism, vandalism of electric transformers/cables to car snatching/stealing.
The state Commissioner of Police, Sulaiman Balarabe, ile paraded the suspects at the state police command headquarters yesterday, said 10 guns, several rounds of ammunition and other items were recovered from the suspects.
He said that seven of the suspects were arrested for murder, eight for armed robbery, five for cultism/unlawful possession of firearms, five for vandalism of electricity facilities, two for kidnapping and three for car snatching/stealing, among others.
Balarabe said that Friday Ani aka Miki (20), Elochukwu Eze (21), Nnaji Ejimakonye aka Igbo Boy and Nwobodo Simeon on June 7, 2019, allegedly murdered Chiodera Nworie, a member of rival cult group while another suspect, Nnaemeka Aniamalu (26), who was recently released from prison, was arrested for robbery and murder of Obumneke Chinegundu.
Another suspect, Kenechukwu Eze (39), a native of Amoli Edem Nsukka Local Government Area and three others, still at large, as well as one man in prison, were alleged to have shot and killed a lawyer, Mr. Agundu Emmanuel, at Obollo Afor in Udenu Local Government Area on August 15, 2018.
Others arrested are Jude Ifeanyi for stealing a Toyota Corolla car with registration number HRM 01 NEN, Destiny Ajah arrested for car stealing/armed robbery, Jude Chibuoke and Chigozie Egwuonwu arrested for vandalism of electricity transformer.
The police also paraded Chibuzo Obanigwe (25), who was arrested for cult activities but during investigation it was discovered that he partook with others at large in a reported case of armed robbery.
The robbery occurred at the home of Ositadinma Mete during which a 20-year-old lady, Amarachi Mete, was shot on the head, leading to her death. Obanigwe was identified by Ositadinma.
Those arrested for kidnapping included Hyacinth Okey (22), a native of Ugwujero village in Nimbo and Okweli Federick (20), a native of Ekwuru Nimbo both from Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area; alleged to be involved in the kidnap of Charles Enejere.
A cash of N187,000, two automatic Pump Action guns, charms and two single-barrelled guns were recovered from them.
The police chief said the command would not relent in its efforts at stamping crime and criminality from the state.