The renewed attacks on police formations in parts of the country evoked fresh concerns over criminals’ bravado and this requires an urgent and equally decisive action. The police must reciprocate with reasonable capacity to send a strong message to the criminals about police capability to protect themselves and the people. This becomes more crucial because a defeated police, the most potent and visible internal security architecture, is a precursor to a country’s gradual collapse. These attacks also put on the front burner the need to address with all seriousness palpable laxity of police officers, station guards at their duty posts, low fortifications of police formations, inadequacy of firearms and even reintroduction of the traditional professionalism and alertness of police officers on duty. Police officers and men must also come to the realisation that their self-preservation is essential if they must protect the nation. Hence they must have a clear understanding of their workplace hazards, understand limits of their ability and oil their emergency response procedures in preparation for any eventuality. In recent times, the media has been awashed with the paradox of attacks by daredevil criminals who unleash their bullets on policemen and even soldiers in cold blood. These felons, in rare display of audacity, not only took the battle to the policemen, but they descend heavily on their formations with volley of bullets, overpowered them and cart away specialised arms, ammunition and communication equipment. Though the Shi’ite incident at the National Assembly Complex in Abuja, which left serious injuries on policemen, is the latest, Rivers, Bayelsa, Imo, Delta are the hotbeds of such brazen attacks on these law enforcement agents. It was preceded earlier by the unpardonable murder at a riverside town of Agudama- Ekpetiama in Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. In a share pre-meditated stroke, some gunmen swooped on the station in Bayelsa, killed the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), a pregnant policewoman and two other cops. The armed attackers, numbering about 10, rode in a speedboat, stopped at a road linking Agudama and Sabagraia and trekked to the police station about 3a.m. to pulverise them. And at a checkpoint around Ojoto Axis in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, two out of the mobile policemen on duty were attacked by some criminals in broad daylight and fled with their arms and ammunition. On the same day, some youths set fire to the Otoko Police Division, Otoko community in Obowo Local Government Area of Imo State over alleged killing of a25-year-old man by a policeman. Besides several attacks of the same nature in Bayelsa, it is on record that during the last elections in the state, a deputy commissioner was physically assaulted in an attack where a top lawmaker was fingered and no one has been jailed for this to send loud signals to others. Earlier, several policemen, especially in Delta State, an area used to military deployments because of militant attacks, has little confidence in the policemen and it was not a surprise that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the C-Division, Asaba, Superintendent of Police (SP) Valentine Mbalu, was abducted by people suspected to be herdsmen recently. This was followed a few weeks later by the murder of four policemen following attack by gunmen on farmlands said to have been forcibly taken over by herdsmen at Abraka in Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State. Going down memory lane, in 2014, the then Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Solomon Arase, said that about 359 policemen were killed on duty between January 2014 and April 2016, while 272 others sustained various degrees of injuries within the same period during their intervention in civil conflicts. Another sad occurrence, a few years ago, was in Kogi State when the Ombatshe cultists waylaid government officials’ convoy and killed over 15 policemen and other security agents, leaving behind widows and fatherless children. It is not only regrettable that these gallant officers and men have become cannon-fodders, paying the supreme price to enhance community peace and security in the country; it underscores how deep-seated the level of criminality in the country is. With these sadistic occurrences, daily incidents of killings of law-enforcement officials fuelled by arms proliferation, drug abuse, animalistic behaviour and fragrant disregard for law and order, we are not surprised that the nation is ranked number three in the global terrorism index, thus requiring urgent and productive action. The reasons are legion – a nation whose police officers and men have become expendables cannot attract foreign direct investment, rather, it is pointing to the exit door of the few therein. We commend officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force for their significant roles in the protection of lives and property in the country, combating riots, maintaining law and order, even in the face of ebbing economy and spiralling unemployment, under-employment and job losses.