Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, yesterday warned residents of the state against engaging in acts capable of damaging the environment. Speaking during the World Environment Day in Akure, Akeredolu said the theme for this year: “Beat Air Pollution” was designed to consider how to reduce the amount of air pollution. Some of the factors listed by the governor as  hazardous  to the environment to include bush burning, deforestation, carbon emission, gas flaring, indiscriminate waste disposal, poaching, heavy dependent on fossil fuel for transportation and industrialisation. Akeredolu said such acts are detrimental to human health because they pollute the air thereby leading to earth temperature, global warming, climate change and flood, among others. His words : “The growing concern and need for preservation and improvement of the human environment had been a major issue that affected the well-being of peoples and economic development throughout the world. “This moved the United Nations, in December 1972, to adopt a resolution designating June 5 every year as the World Environment Day. “This is with a view to deepening environmental awareness, engage millions of people from different countries across the globe, as well as draw the attention of political and health organisations to implement some effective positive actions that could engender environmental sustainability.” Relying on the United Nations’ survey, the governor said 92 per cent of people worldwide do not breathe clean air and approximately seven million people globally die prematurely yearly from air pollution, with about four million of the deaths occurring in developing countries. “As a result of the challenges posed by air pollution, Akeredolu’s government is determined to provide mitigating measures through the use of renewable energy and green technologies among others to reduce the level of sir pollution in Ondo State.” The governor said: legislation is currently in place to prevent bush burning and deforestation in the state. According to him “As recently, the Ondo State Government received 1,000 consignment of clean stoves for distribution to our women in the rural of the state to reduce air pollution.” Describing air pollution as a death harbinger, the  State Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Funso Esan, challenged everyone to collectively team up to save the environment. The commissioner said the state government had taken some steps in ensuring that the environment is safer for all.