The Chief of Defence Staff(CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin has said that there is an urgent need for every  Nigerian , in the spirit of patriotism , contribute to the efforts of combating the menace of insecurity in the society. He gave the order, while declaring  the Nigerian Army Day Celebration(NADCEL)/Combat Small Arms training (COSAT) themed; Professionally Responsive   Soldiers, a Panacea for successful  Military Operations, held yesterday (July 1, 2019) at the headquarters, Nigerian Army Ordnance Corps, Abalti Barracks, Yaba. He said that, “Our effort at combating insecurity in our country is a continuous engagement that requires a lot of sacrifice, and to which we are ultimately committed, the Nigerian army, and indeed the armed forces of Nigeria.” Olonisakin , who considered this year’s  celebration as very unique said, “Our discuss comes at a time when the armed forces of Nigeria is re-organising to better tackle current challenges, and curb all future threats in line with our role as enshrined in the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria. “Our contemporary security challenges are characterised by more stage actors, who exhibit deep intolerance for peaceful coexisting with other members of the public based on narrow ideologies, radicalism, and in some instances, outright criminal intent. “These individuals and groups have resulted to attacking innocent citizens, creating an atmosphere of fear and panic through act of terror, as well as insurgent activities against Nigerian territorial integrity.” According to him, “The Combat Support Arm, consisting of the Artillery, Engineers, Signals and Intelligence, will always have a role to play in support of the combat arms of the Nigerian army towards achieving this mandate. “Our experiences in the North-East and other prevailing security challenges in the country underscore the need for capacity building through constant detective training. “The Nigerian Army day celebration serves as a constant reminder of the sacrifices made by our gallant troops in securing Nigeria. It has also traditionally become an avenue to showcase the mighty and many contributions of the Nigerian army in keeping Nigeria safe and making it a united country.” Earlier, the Chief of Army Staff(COAS), Lt. General  Tukur Buratai, said that, “This year’s NADCEL  is being conducted  at a time, when our soldiers are still fighting  various evils bedeviling  the nations of various forms. “A good number of our colleagues have over the years made sacrifices in the process of keeping Nigeria safe. Many Nigerians have lost siblings, relatives or friends as our troops are  battling the enemies. “We have not only consolidated on the gains established in the fight against insurgency in the North East. But have progressed to the stabilization phase, where all efforts  are geared towards  ensuring displaced persons return to their traditional homes. “This is based on my core conviction of not only military support nation to civil authorities, but also the fact that increased military professionalism ultimately, with greater effectiveness in military operations. “It is in the spirit of mission that this year’s NADCEL theme is aptly crafted as professionally responsive soldiering as panacea for successful military operations.” He, however,  commended   efforts  of the Combat support Arms, “ in the on-going  counter-insurgency operation in the North East where ordinary has effectively  acquired located  and engage  ground target , while the Air defence  continue to present hostile  area interference  with our land operations .” He added that, “I must remind you that the Nigerian Army support the democratic dispensation of the country, must remain unquestionable and personnel must remain apolitical. “ We engage ourselves in the task of defending in the territorial integrity of this nation, we must continue to exhibit unalloyed  loyalty to constitution and the president commander in chief of the Federal  Republic of Nigeria.”