Hundred per cent of the profits Nigeria makes from surge in crude price at the international market is wasted on fuel subsidy. Adeola Yusuf looks at the subsidy model that is pushing the country into bankruptcy.     The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, stirred the hornet nest. The country is on the verge of bankruptcy and the cause is the fuel subsidy, which consumes N1.5 bilion daily, the first class monarch declared. While making a case for a total but gradual removal of subsidy on oil products and electricity tariff, the emir, who was speaking at the 3rd National Treasury Workshop in Kano, said that government must take a bold, but difficult decision of addressing the problem of these two sectors for the country’s economy to flourish. “100 per cent of what we earned in the petroleum sector went out to import petrol,” the traditional ruler said. “You are treasurers, is this sustainable? The country will be bankrupted and we are heading to bankruptcy.” Long road to waste The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is currently subsidising premium motor spirit, popularly known as petrol, by about N1.5billion every day. Although the Corporation insisted that it was not paying subsidy on petrol, as it had no parliamentary approval for such, it revealed that what NNPC currently incurred as under-recovery on PMS was between N20 and N25 per litre. The NNPC is the sole importer of petrol into Nigeria, a role it has maintained for more than a year after oil marketers stopped importing the commodity due to the Federal Government’s decision to halt the payment of fuel subsidy to marketers. Speaking on the sidelines of an inspection tour of filling stations in Abuja, the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Maikanti Baru, reportedly noted that the Corporation imported about 60 million litres of petrol daily and evacuated about 50 million litres. With the importation of 60 million litres daily and an under-recovery of N25 per litre, the Corporation should be currently spending about N1.5 billion every day subsidising petrol. Baru, however, explained that the amount incurred as under-recovery often fluctuated with the international price of crude oil, adding that the higher the cost of crude, the higher the Corporation spent on petrol subsidy, and vice versa. Going back the memory lane, he said: “On December 24, 2017, we were quite in very bad shape as far as fuel distribution was concerned. We had witnessed significant hoarding and diversion of products and most of the filling stations were not having fuel. But I’ve come out with my team to assess the situation myself and for the President that fuel distribution and supply is no longer an issue. “Despite the huge disparity between the landed cost of petrol and its pump price, the President has been able to ensure that every Nigerian has access to sufficient product at government regulated price of N145 per litre.” The GMD added: “This is also despite the fact that at some point, we imported PMS with under-recoveries of over N80 per litre. The president has supported us and told us to go ahead and ensure that products are available to Nigerians and even as of today, the under-recovery is in the region of N20 to N25 a litre. The NEITI’s data The Federal Government has spent about N4.5 trillion in the last seven years as subsidy on petroleum products imported into the country, the Nigerian Extractive Transparency Initiative (NEITI) had said three years ago. This was disclosed in a statement by immediate past Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, who was then the Executive Secretary, NEITI, disclosed this in a statement. She noted that the huge amount is good enough to repair the faulty refineries and build new ones. Ahmed emphasised then that it was time for the Federal Government to remove oil subsidy, adding that the financial commitment to subsidy has grossly impacted on national purse. She stated that from the last NEITI Audit Report of 2012, a total of N1.355 trillion was processed for payment as subsidy. Out of this amount, N690 billion was actually paid, putting a debt burden of N665 billion on the Federal Government. Ahmed added: “From our reports, the amount of money that Nigeria has paid so far on subsidy in the last seven years stands at N4.5 trillion. The breakdown shows that N816,554 billion was paid between 2006 and 2008, N3 trillion between 2009 to 2011 and N690 billion in 2012. We in NEITI believe that this amount is more than enough to repair our refineries or build new ones. “NEITI therefore stands firmly with Nigerians who share the fair position that the oil subsidy should be removed.” What is surprising, however, is that throughout the period that Ahmed held sway as the minister, government kept paying subsidy on petrol through the back door. The emir kicks The emir asked what was so crucial about petroleum products that the nation had to sacrifice education, healthcare and infrastructure just to have “cheap petrol” and risk the financial stability of the country. “It is a difficult decision but if the president wants to deal with poverty, he has to deal with this,” he urged. “And you have to tell Nigerians that they have to be ready, if the international price of oil goes up, people must be ready to pay more and if it goes down people will benefit. We have to be responsive to what happens everywhere.” Setting priorities wrong A subsidy on petrol, according to Sanusi is a wrong way of setting priorities. “Now we have this situation where people need to be told the truth because people don’t understand that N1.5 trillion into fuel subsidy is N1.5trillion out of education, healthcare and infrastructure and that is why we have so many children out of school and that is why we have problem of malnutrition,” he lamented. “And where are you going to get the money to solve these problems if all the money is going into petroleum sector?” the emir queried. He said the consumption of power and petroleum products are private individual decisions and government could not fight poverty by subsidizing these products. Fast path to bankruptcy The subsidy, the Emir noted, is a fast path to bankruptcy for Nigeria. “As treasurers, you are not just accounting money and keeping it, you are managing it and your duty is to tell the president, Sir look at these numbers, we cannot afford this, and if we continue spending billions on fuel subsidy, spending hundreds of billions on power subsidy this country will go bankrupt”, Sanusi lamented. “And I am hoping that, again what I have said is simple honest contribution to you, so that you can begin to push through, even though it is difficult.” Template for poverty Besides, the emir said: “Nigeria is the only country whose balance sheet does not benefit from an increase in the price of oil and this does not start with this government, it has been on for 20, 30 years. “Today you have tension between America and Iran, the price is going up, every oil producing country is going to be happy because it is going to earn more. But in Nigeria, we are going to earn more and we turn round and spend what we earned on importing petroleum products.” Space for transparency, accountability Accountant-General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, said that accountability and transparency should be promoted in all facets of the nation’s finance and management architecture. “It is expected that participants should appreciate that accountability and transparency remain major watchwords for prudent financial management practices and are therefore, major prerequisites for economic growth and development,” he said. In his goodwill message, the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, said the best strategy for fighting corruption was to mobilize everybody to take part, as no one had the monopoly of knowledge. Last line Sustaining the subsidy on fuel is heavy on emotions, but light on economy. While government is expected to take the bull by the horns on total removal of fuel subsidy, it should ensure that this action is taken gradually and steadily.