Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka and former President Olusegun Obasanjo do not often share the same opinion on an issue. Most times, Soyinka and Obasanjo, two prominent sons of Ogun State, have divergent views on same issue. Their views are so distant that it is seen as personal animosity between the two. Soyinka also does not share much with former President Goodluck Jonathan in terms of political views. But, last week, following a letter by Obasanjo to President Muhammadu Buhari on the state of insecurity in the country, Soyinka, for once, agreed with Obasanjo. The literary icon told the president not to ignore the letter written by Obasanjo. Soyinka, in a comment published widely, said that Buhari cannot “play deaf” to voices like Obasanjo and Balarabe Musa, former Governor of Kaduna State. He said: “Read the Obasanjo statement. It should be obvious to government, by now, that the nation is not sleeping easy. “When voices as ideologically separated as Obasanjo and Balarabe Musa harp on the same theme, government should understand that this is not the time to play deaf.” Obasanjo had, in the letter, said that there were ominous clouds of danger gathering around the country following the spate of killings, kidnappings and other violent crimes across the country, which have been attributed to some bandits and cattle herders. He said that the president was not doing enough to stop the menace. Obasanjo said: “…The issue – security – is hitting at the foundation of our existence as Nigerians and fast eroding the root of our Nigerian community. I am very much worried and afraid that we are on the precipice and dangerously reaching a tipping point where it may no longer be possible to hold danger at bay.” Musa had also added his voice on the crisis, asking the Federal Government to act to stop the country from drifting into anarchy. On his part, Soyinka said: “We cannot all be mere idle alarmists and all at the same time. “The nation is hurting. It’s hurting like none of us can recall in our lifetime.” Soyinka had previously said that the president was overwhelmed by the enormity of the security challenges and has no solution in sight. But responding to the alarms raised by Obasanjo, Soyinka, Balarabe and others, Buhari had insisted that some people were politicizing some isolated security issues in the country. The president accused his critics of not being patriotic. He argued that insecurity was a global issue, with governments seeking measures to address the new dimensions to insurgency, kidnapping and banditry. If the president saw the criticisms of Obasanjo, Soyinka, Jonathan and the likes as political, we wonder if he can also take that of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, as political too. Twice last week, the Ooni was in Aso Rock, meeting with the president and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on the same issue of insecurity, particularly in the South- West. It was instructive that the monarch stated quite clearly that drums of war were beating in the South- West, with strangers occupying the forests in the zone. The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, also stated same in a letter to the president. In the past two weeks, there have been massive outcries all over the country about the activities of criminals on the highways, in the bushes and at every corner of the country. The Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohanaeze, Afenifere, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), the Pan Niger Delta Forum, Middle Belt Forum and even the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) have all cried out about the state of security in the country. Perhaps, a measure of the growing discontent was the call by the NEF last week on Fulani herders to leave the southern part of the country for their safety. Such calls have also come from the South for southerners in the North to return home. Those calls were rightly shot down by the Presidency, which insisted correctly that every Nigerian has a right to live in any part of the country freely. While we commend the Presidency for shooting down such calls, we are not oblivious of the fact that the calls by these prominent Nigerians for action against insecurity cannot be dismissed as merely political ranting. We assert very strongly that there is danger in the land. We say so not only because of the killings, but because of the dangerous dimension the after-effects of the killings are taking. We do not believe that the Federal Government led by Buhari would sit and be comfortable with calls and actions that directly endanger the unity of the country, as we have seen in the past week. No matter the bold face the Presidency puts in this matter, what Nigerians demand is action. The protection of lives and property of Nigerians, their security in their country is the number one duty of government. Anything short of direct and deliberate action from the Federal Government on the security issue to stem it is an open door to self-help, anarchy and chaos for the whole system. We suggest, therefore, that Buhari and his minders should wake up before the predictions of doomsday prophets happen in his presence.