 An ace broadcaster and Deputy President of the Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE), Umar Sa’id Tudunwada, lost his life in a motor accident in Kura Local Government Area, a few kilometres from Kano metropolis. Also, five others died in an auto crash on the Bauchi-Jos highway, about 30 kilometres from Bauchi town. Tudunwada, his wife, Aisha, and daughter, were buried in Kano amidst tears by relations and sympathisers. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has sympathised with the people of Kano and the family of Tudunwada over the loss. Also, the NGE expressed sadness over Tudunwada’s death. In a statement signed by the NGE President, Funke Egbemode, and General Secretary, Mary Atolagbe, the body said Tudunwada’s sudden death had left members reeling and at a loss for words. The statement reads in part: “Our heartfelt and most impassioned condolences go to members of his family, who must have to bear his painful exit. “We also extend our deepest sympathies to his friends, colleagues and staff in Kano State Radio Corporation, where UST (Umar Sa’id Tudunwada) was managing director. “His unopposed emergence as the Deputy President of the NGE at the last Convention held in Lagos, on the 4th of May, 2019, speaks volumes of the high regard, respect and affection he enjoyed as an invaluable contributor to matters of the Guild!” Tudunwada’s death, according to the governor, is a great loss that leaves a wide vacuum in the media practice in the state and the country as a whole. He said: “Not only his family members, the state and the media profession would forever remember him as an icon who left when we all needed him the most.” Ganduje described Tudunwada as complete gentleman whose clean character shaped many promising media men and women in the state and beyond. He said: “What we have just lost is an embodiment of professionalism, efficiency and effective understanding of today’s media practice.” Until his death, Tudunwada was the immediate past managing director of Radio Kano. Before then he was a special adviser to Governor Ganduje on Media. He was also a media aide to former Governor Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. He was one of the leading popular newscasters with the Community Television (CTV), Kano, in the 80s. Tudunwada was with the Radio DW, Germany and Voice of America as an ace broadcaster then. He later worked with Freedom Radio, as the general manager for many years, among other places he worked. Meanwhile, the spokesman for the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Rilwan Suleiman, confirmed the death of five people in the Bauchi accident. In a telephone interview with journalists, Suleiman said that the accident involved a trailer and a Peugeot 406 which had a head on collision leading to the death of the five people. According to him, eight people were involved in the accident. Sulaiman said the driver of the Peugeot 406 veered off his lane into the lane of the trailer “despite the fact that the driver of the trailer did all he could to avoid him, but the two vehicles were over speeding. The trailer had a speed mark of almost about 50 to 60 meters before hitting the Peugeot 406”. He said: “On Saturday, about 1.30a.m., there was a motor accident about 30 kilometres away from Bauchi town involving a trailer with registration number FJ 607 MKA white and blue in colour and a Peugeot 406 car, ash in colour with registration number KRF 13 AA. “The accident occurred when the Peugeot 406, which was coming to Bauchi, tried to dodge a bad portion of the road but lost control and ran into the trailer which was heading to Jos and they had a head-on collision.” “As a result, all the occupants of the Peugeot 406, two female adults and three male adults, sustained severe injuries. Our men immediately rushed to the scene after receiving the information and rushed them to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi for medical attention. Unfortunately, they were confirmed dead on arrival by a medical doctor.” Suleiman said that because of the impact of the accident, it took his men hours before they succeeded in removing the Peugeot from the trailer. He said: “The trailer crushed the Peugeot and the Peugeot was under the trailer. We had to seek the services of two cranes and it took us several hours before we were able to separate the two vehicles.” Meanwhile, a student of the Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi was on Friday night killed in a motor accident close to the second gate of the institution. This came barely 10 days after a student of the Bauchi State University and two others on a motorcycle were killed in a similar incident by a reckless driver.
The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the polytechnic, Rabiu Wada, confirmed the incident to newsmen. He said: “One of our students who was returning home from his lectures on a motorcycle was knocked down by a driver. Efforts were made to save his life but he couldn’t make it. “We rushed him to the Medical Centre of the polytechnic and from there, he was transferred to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi, where a doctor confirmed his death. “The next day (Saturday), some students of the institution came out to protest to express their grievances over the recklessness of motorists on the road around the institution.”