●Container throughput falls 9.9%  CHALLENGE Nigeria extends demurrage period to make ports competitive  As cargo dwell time is becoming longer, government is planning to consider a temporary waiver on lease agreement charged at the port. The port concessionaires have been pressing for a downward review of the entire concession agreement, including the Guaranteed Minimum Tonnage (GMT) since 2016. Minimum tonnage is the projected minimum volume of cargo the concessionaires are expected to handle per annum, which would form the basis for the payment of agreed fees and levies to the Nigerian Ports Authority, while waiver is expected to be a temporary measure to lessen the effect of the Apapa traffic. Already, the Nigerian ports have recorded a downward trend in operational activities in 2018, as the number of vessels that called at the ports dropped from 1,045 in 2017 to 969 in 2018, showing a decrease of 7.3 per cent. Similarly, container throughput stood at 368, 976 Twenty Equivalent Units (TEUs), a drop of 9.9 per cent from 409,454 TEUs recorded in 2017. Worried by the negative development at the port, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) has started mounting pressure on the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to concede 30 per cent waiver on lease and container throughput fees to terminal operators. Findings by this newspaper revealed that only the lease and container throughput fees may be considered by government.  This is coming after the presidential taskforce had approached the terminal operators to extend their three days demurrage free periods to eight days. However, the port concessionaires had earlier said that unless the NPA grants them concession on the monthly lease payments, they may not yield ground on the Presidential task force request. It was learnt that the waiver is another approach being considered to solve the protracted Apapa gridlock. Executive Secretary of NSC, Hassan Bello had already explained in Lagos that the traffic situation in Apapa needed some special sacrifices from all stakeholders involved in the port process. He noted that the cargo dwell time was now getting uncomfortably longer at the port terminals.  Bello said: “We are competing with other ports and we need to make our ports efficient, but with the way the government is going now, I think all the challenges will be a thing of the past.” Already, shipping companies using the nation’s seaports have extended their free demurrage periods from five to 12 days. “The terminals are going to make sacrifices that for the three days free days period, they are extending it to eight days, this is also what we call sacrifice, as for the shipping companies, they are extending their free demurrage periods from 5 to 12 days,” he said.  “We are also talking with NPA to relax the charges and give 30 per cent waiver of certain charges within the period contemplated, this is a temporary measure, but this is what I call general average sacrifice in order to save the situation, when a ship is about to capsize, we have a general average situation where the heavy cargoes are jettisoned and thrown overboard in order for the ship to survive.” 