The Provost, Emmanuel Alayande College of Education, Oyo, Dr. Rasak Adetunji Adefabi, has stated that the nation would still stand out in the comity of nations only when its leaders were more accountable by demonstrating greater respect for the rule of law and judicial independence.
Although he lamented inability of successive governments to give account of their stewardship during and after their tenure, he attributed the development to lack of political consciousness, legislative ineptitude, illiteracy, ethnicity, religious bigotry or sheer ignorance on the part of the electorate.
The provost, however, urged those in position of leadership as well as aspiring for one in future to always embrace ideals of democracy anchored on responsiveness, responsibility and transparency.
Adefabi made the statement in a lead paper presented on leadership and accountability in Nigeria at the 11th annual national conference of the School of Arts and Social Sciences, Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo chaired by a former deputy provost, Dr. Gboyega Ajayi.
He charged citizens to show more interest in governance and emulate those in developed countries like America, Britain, France and Germany “by holding public officers accountable for their actions, through demand for accountability.”
Earlier, the Provost of Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo, Dr. Samuel
Akintunde described the theme of the conference as what “came at a point when citizens are critical of their leaders, and respected global institutions and organizations are demanding responsive and responsible leadership in Nigeria in order to provide investment friendly environment.”
Meanwhile, workers of the College have been urged to place their trust in God.
A member of the prayer team of Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo and zonal pastor in The Redeemed Christian Church of God in Ondo City, Pastor Paul Bolaji Adebayo, gave the advice while delivering a sermon at the July 2019 edition of the College-organized monthly prayer meeting held on 1st July, 2019 at the Olusegun Obasanjo Auditorium.
He said: “Don’t be afraid in the new month, make up your mind to walk with God. You need to be open to God. He is set to fight your battle. You also need to trust God. There is no shortcut to success. It is permanent if you want to enjoy it.”