The Chairman of Guarantee Trust Bank, Mrs Osaretin Afusat Demuren has urged pharmacists in the country to curb drug abuse and misuse. According to Demuren, pharmacists being the custodian of medicines have the responsibility to restrict drugs going into wrong hands. Speaking during the 2019 Mid-Year Meeting of the Board of Fellows  (BOF) of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), which took place at Sheraton, Ikeja, Lagos recently, Demuren who was the chairman of the occasion, stressed that pharmacists must demonstrate commitment and passion to control drug distribution and sales with a view to channel them into the hands of the right consumers. The theme of the 2019 Mid-Year Meeting is ‘Rebirth Of Nigeria: Harnessing The Great Potentials’. While insisting that pharmacists must not be motivated by profits, she said many non-prescription drugs were still being bought from over-the-counter (OTC), thereby paving the way for wrong medications to get into the hands of those who abuse and misuse the drugs. Lamenting the chaotic drug distribution in the country, she said, “Everything (medications) is now bought across the counter in Nigeria. Whereas, abroad, this is contrary to what is practicable. Only prescribed drugs are sold from over-the-counter.” Over-the-counter (OTC) drugs are medicines sold directly to a consumer without a prescription from a healthcare professional, as opposed to prescription drugs, which may be sold only to consumers possessing a valid prescription. However, based on the menace of drug abuse in communities and the society at large, she said, “drugs should be controlled and prescription drugs only should be sold from across the counter. “Pharmacists should insist on prescription before selling drugs. We need to put heads together so as to stop people getting non-prescription drugs unless they present doctor’s prescription.” Similarly, she lamented the increasing menace of drug abuse posed to the youths, calling on pharmacists to work with relevant authority to stamp out drug abuse. Demuren however challenged the PSN to do a lot of work in tackling drug abuse. The Chairman of BOF of PSN, Prof. Mbang N. Femi-Oyewo said the Mid-Year meeting was a statutory assignment of the Board of Fellow of the PSN and it was an annual event preceding the Annual General Meeting (AGM), which holds during the PSN Annual National Conference. The event attracted numerous acclaimed pharmacists 111 of whom were initiated as new fellows. Over 500 fellows attended the programme. The former Nigeria’s Ambassador to the United Nations (UN), Prof. Agboola Gambari presented the keynote speech.