The General Overseer of the Revival Assembly, Anselm Madubuko, has berated the leadership of Nigeria for what he described as failure of government to deal with sundry issues besetting Nigerians.  On that premise, Madubuko called on Nigerians irrespective of religion, tribe or cultural background to embrace fervent prayers as solution, to lift Nigeria out of her present predicaments. Madubuko, who made the observation at press conference in Lagos ahead the church’s 17th Annual Azusa Conference, said that numerous challenges confronting Nigeria as a nation could checked if religious leaders call on God to intervene and show mercy to Nigerians.  According to him, this year’s conference of the Revival Assembly slated between 22 -28 of this month will be centered on God’s intervention in the country’s plights. He added that God’s anointing is much needed in terms of revival prayers to turn things around positively in the country.  His words: “It is clear that our politicians don’t have the answers to our problems again. All the political parties don’t have the answers to Nigeria’s problems; we just have to pressing unto God to show us mercy in this country. And that is why I believe By the Grace of God this is very important that there will be a visitation that would not just start the church but the nation during the revival camp meeting.”  He continued: “We have never been like this as a people and our belief is only God that can help us out of our challenges in Nigeria. So, the Revival is what we need to bring the church back to God because the people cannot be touched unless the church start it.  Madubuko added that the church is the only avenue God has to reach the world and then when the church is sick the world can never be healed.  “So we pray that first of all the church needs to be revived. And when it is revived then we can look out and help the world. This is what revival is all about.  “In some countries that have held revivals it affected everything. It affected the Army, it affected the prisoners because no more crime in the country. It affected every aspect of lives because God is interested in every aspect of man; spiritual and body. So once again, we believe God to make a major visitation like never before,” Madubuko stressed.  Madubuko said he will be ministering alongside with his wife, Ambassador Emmy Madubuko, at the conference.  Other ministers expected include Papa Ayo Oritsejafor, Rev. Dr. Sam Tukura, Apostle Hans Howard, Bishop Funbi Addo and Bishop Okafor. 