Two days after Air Peace Boeing 737 was involved in an accident that saw its front collapsed, another Nigerian carrier, Medview Airlines B737-500 aircraft with registration 5N-BQM was involved in a serious incident en-route Lagos from Abuja. One of the passengers who called New Telegraph yesterday said he just has a ‘crazy experience on my Medview flight into Lagos”. The pilot, he said, was making announcement as the plane started descending rapidly and oxygen masks started dropping from the compartment at the roof of the airplane. Within a week, there were three unrelated incidents from three different airlines; an act of unlawful interference on Azman aircraft; a crash landing by Air Peace airline aircraft and the latest, emergency deployment of oxygen masks for passengers on Medview flight. Some of the 133 passengers and six crew members were left injured when Air Peace’s B737-500, with registration number 5N-BQO, crash landed on the runway of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. Tuesday’s incident was one out of the many incidents involving the airline in the last six months raising concern about air safety in the country’s aviation industry. The aircraft, on landing on 18R, veered off the runway and lost its nose wheel. The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), in a statement, said it was notified that an aircraft, operated by Med-View Nigeria Limited, Boeing 737-500 with registration marks 5N-BQM, was involved in a serious incident en-route Lagos from Abuja on July 23, 2019 at about 3:07 p.m. local time. A statement by spokesman for the agency, Mr. Tunji Oketunbi, said the aircraft was carrying 27 passengers and six crew members on board, adding that there was no fatality. He noted that from the information gathered so far, cabin altitude warning came on at FL 320 followed by deployment of oxygen masks which necessitated the crew to carry out emergency descent procedure. “Our team of safety investigators has commenced investigation. As the investigating agency, AIB needs and hereby solicits for your assistance. We want the public to know that we would be amenable to receiving any video clip, relevant evidence, or information any members of the public may have of the accident; that can assist us with this investigation”, he added.