Ridiculous Nigeria’s 2016 loss to crude theft doubles annual budget  The Federal Government and international oil companies (IOCs) in Nigeria suffered N3.8 trillion cumulative revenues deficit from crude oil theft in one year, New Telegraph has learnt.  The loss suffered in 2016, the latest report from the Nigeria Natural Resource Charter (NNRC) showed, doubles the amount appropriated by the country in its annual budget for the year.  Although stakeholders differ on exact figure of loss to crude theft, they all agreed that the menace is fast turning into a conduit pipe for Nigeria.  In separate reactions, the stakeholders agreed that this deficit is hitting hard on the country’s critical sectors such as health and education.  The NNRC document, which was part-presented at a seminar on advocacy against crude oil theft, stated that about 400,000 barrels of crude were stolen on daily basis between 2011 and 2014.  In a presentation of the NNRC study on oil theft, its consultant, Mr. Niyi Awodeyi, validated the claim that an estimated 400,000 barrels was stolen daily, particularly during the peak years of between 2011 and 2014.  “More recent figures showed that Nigeria lost N3.8 trillion in 2016 to oil theft, an amount that was over 50 per cent of the country’s annual budget for the same year,” the document stated.  Validating the data, Awodeyi said that the loss was anti-development, because the revenues lost to crude oil theft could conveniently fund infrastructural and other development projects that could enhance the wellbeing of all citizens. Poor governance, poverty, unemployment and the oil companies, he said, were the major drivers of oil theft.  Responding, Managing Director of New Nigeria Foundation, Prof. Femi Ajibola, said though there are no exact figures of what the country loses to oil theft, it was clear that the loss is humongous.  “What we have lost in one year is much more than 10 times what we have spent on health,” he said. “If we can reduce what we are losing by just 10 per cent, we can increase our health budget to two times of what we are spending today.”  Critical government agencies in the oil sector, representatives of international oil companies, security agencies as well as the host communities agreed to the need to put an end to crude theft.  Ajibola said if the country could reduce oil theft, things can change for the better.    