Military and paramilitary institutions, including hospitals henceforth must source official uniforms of their personnel from the local textile firms in line with the dictate of Executive Order 3. This was the directive of President Muhammdu Buhari as disclosed yesterday by the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele. Emefiele stated this during a meeting with Service Chiefs and heads of paramilitary agencies as part of efforts to revamp textile and garment industries from total collapse. The CBN governor said he called for the meeting based on information that Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) have not made any significant order for uniforms or clothing materials from Nigerian textile manufacturers and garment companies. “We have put in place necessary mechanisms to ensure use of high yielding varieties that will produce top quality fabrics and those that can compete in the international market. “We have also observed that our textile factories are carrying huge quantities of unsold stock while our garment factories are idle due to lack of local patronage. We are optimistic that with your support, this trend can be reversed. “We have the mandate of Mr. President to ensure that all uniformed services and theatre wears in hospitals and medical facilities be sourced locally from the Nigerian CTG sector. “ To ensure the success of the Presidential Order, he said the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) has been notified to enforce compliance among MDAs. “Our model in achieving this presidential directive is to facilitate long term contracts (five years or more) with our textile and garment factories to produce uniforms for our armed forces and uniform services using local fabrics and textile materials. “We are not naive of the fact that the nature of your jobs will warrant special quality and security around the production of your wares. “My team will work with your nominees toward ensuring requisite quality and security associated with your uniforms. “Your nominees will also join our team to inspect the various textiles and garment factories to ensure their readiness to be engaged on long term contracts to forestall breaches. “We shall work out payment terms that fit budget releases for uniforms for various organisations,” he added. Yesterday’s meeting of CBN governor with top officials of military and para-military and stakeholders in textile industry was a continuation of similar one held months ago designed to revive Nigerian textile industry through enforcement of Executive Order 003 on Support of Local Content in Procurement by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government. The CBN governor said the bank has secured backing of the president in its quest to revive cotton, textile and garment (CTG) industry. He said the priority placed on the sector was hinged on the conviction that it has the capacity to transform Nigeria’s rural economy and revive the textile and garment industries by creating over two million jobs; improve internal revenue across three tiers of government, and reduce $4 billion import bill incurred annually on textile and apparel. “This event symbolizes our commitment to attain self-sufficiency in cotton production with a view to serving the textile and garment segments of the value chain with quality inputs as we target zero importation by the year 2020. I have been holding meetings with the CTG sector stakeholders toward reviving Nigeria’s textile sector. “We analysed the huge potentials that exist in the sector, identified the challenges militating against the sector’s contribution to Nigeria’s growth and development and presented quick wins for reviving the sector. “Crucial to this resolve is the call for patriotism and the need to support local manufacturers of textile through patronage by MDAs as entrenched in Executive Order 003. “Mr. President has directed full compliance with this Order as it will help in addressing the pressure on our foreign reserves through demands for forex for the importation of textile and clothing materials,” Emefiele said. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, represented by Major-General Joel Onigbe, Buratai said the Army has been sourcing its uniform locally since 2015.