The convergence of governors of the South- West states on Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, under the aegis of the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN Commission), last week, brought something to the fore – the region deserves urgent solutions to the rampaging level of insecurity in the six states to avoid chaos and anarchy. For a region, which commands more than a quarter of the nation’s population and Gross Domestic Product (GDP), housing headquarters of most of the nation’s banks and the highest number of Nigeria’s industries, an effective security architecture should be a given. Lagos alone is reputed for being the sixth largest economy in Africa. This is more so now that the growing level of insecurity in the country and the South-West in particular has been a source of concern to everyone in the geo-political zone. Spiralling level of kidnapping, rape and massive encroachment on farmlands by herdsmen have taken gigantic tolls on safety, posing great inhibitions to businesses, farming and social lives. Many lecturers of higher institutions, travellers and worshippers alike have been kidnapped, some along with their wives and children, dehumanised and forced to trek several kilometres under the rain by an army of fiendish kidnappers, who either raped or sodomised them or threatened to do so before collecting millions of naira as ransom. Some unlucky ones were buried in the bowels of the forest. More horrendous is the fear that the criminals, who may have affiliation with terrorists, are creeping into one of Nigeria’s erstwhile tranquil and prosperous zone. Still fresh in the memories is the case of the octogenarian former Finance Minister, Chief Olu Falae, who not only had the misfortune of being kidnapped, but also his farm raided twice by herdsmen. In some parts of the South-West, the atrocious criminal activities of the herdsmen have compelled many families to stop farming, with predictable effect on food security. A few years ago, many prominent schools like the Turkish International School and the Lagos State Model College, Igbonla, located in Ogun and Lagos states respectively, came under severe attacks. About 10 of their students and teachers were kidnapped, but later rescued, even as perpetrators who ferried them through the adjourning rivers were arrested in Ondo State. The frequent attacks by herdsmen have further made collective inter-state security operation very imperative. We were not astounded, therefore, that the governors of the six states – Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Babatunde Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) and Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), who met in Ibadan at a Stakeholders’ Security Summit Focus on Western Nigeria, reiterated the need for state police and neighbourhood/community policing to complement the federal police. In particular, Governor Akeredolu, the chairman of South-West Governors Forum, declared that “state police is the way to go. This would give the chief security officers in each of the states the opportunity to direct their affairs and make them accountable instead of waiting for federal directives before major actions could be taken on incidents of banditry, cultism and other heinous crimes. Controlling one’s police at the state level would help us achieve unhindered and accelerated response to any criminal activities recorded within our communities.” The reality is that the current rate of insecurity in the states calls for extraordinary and critical action. It is even worse that the Nigeria Police Force as currently constituted is insufficiently funded, lack adequate personnel and fall short of the UN recommendation of one policeman to 400 citizens to police the over 200 million population. From its near 350,000 officials and men, a number of who perform administrative, traffic and VIP duties, inadequate equipment and funding and an admixture of operational deficiency, the force is further bedevilled by observable inefficiency. Interestingly too, over the years, states have been heavily funding and equipping the police and set up traffic management and sundry security bodies. However, we rise to state that though the states are confronted with myriads of dangerous situations, there is the need to be cautious while formulating modalities to confront these strange occurrences. Whereas we agree that a dangerous situation requires even sometimes unorthodox solution, it is imperative to note that state police, as this stage, is a recipe for disaster. With the states being polarized along ethnic and political lines, the region’s past experiences should come handy in fostering understanding to confront this phenomenon, not necessarily the introduction of state police. The mere fact that the opposition parties hardly win any election conducted by the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIEC) gives a fore gleam of possible consequences of state police. Also, a legal encumbrance is the provision of Section 214 of the 1999 Constitution, which deals with the operation, control, discipline and promotion of the Nigerian Police as well as item 45 of the Exclusive Legislative List (Part 1), which puts the Nigeria Police Force in the exclusive control of the Federal Government under the command of the Inspector-General of Police. On the basis of these, we strongly suggest the constitution of an inter-state joint operation security architecture containing military, the police and civil defence corps as part of collaborative efforts to address these frightening security issues with private sector’s support.