The shift in consumer patterns due to the economic situation in Nigeria and corresponding squeeze on disposal income is taking tolls on the earnings of International Breweries Plc. Chris Ugwu writes   D ue to the challenging macro-environment and the squeeze on household wallets, growth in the mainstream segment of beer industry has been constrained, with more growth seen among cheaper brands. Notable among the changes to the architecture of alcohol business in the country is the rising to prominence of a new variant of alcoholic drinks, which mixes bitters with spirit. Consequently, the financial results of some of the companies in the sector have not been encouraging and the expectations were that subsequent results will be brighter enough to erase the negatives in the accounts but unfortunately the trend has continued unabated. Coupled with increased excise duty rates, International Breweries Plc like its peers has continued to struggle to sustain better performance despite innovative and proactive responses to market dynamics and competitive pressures. Analysts are also forecasting slow-down in earnings, as operating environment remains challenging due to an increasingly competitive landscape. Despite that it remains among tops in the industry, its share price movements has also receded and remained susceptible to the challenges facing the manufacturing businesses in Nigeria due to the upset in financial sector. Company’s Profile International Breweries Plc was incorporated in December 1971 by its founder and first Chairman, Dr. Lawrence Omole under the name International Breweries Limited. The Company commenced production of its flagship product Trophy Lager in December 1978 with an installed capacity of 200,000 hectoliters per annum. Following the increasing demand for its products, in December 1982 the Company embarked on an expansion programme to increase its capacity to 500,000 hectoliters annually. The company was listed on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in April 1995. In 2008 a turnaround strategy was implemented and the company successfully raised funds from the Nigerian Capital market with the issuance of 1.6 million Ordinary Shares of 50 Kobo each at 87kobo per share. This funding started the resurgence of the organization and its brands. In 2008 the Warsteiner Group sold its majority shareholding to the Castel Group and in January 2012 SABMiller Plc entered into a strategic alliance with the Castel group. During this period significant investment was made, which transformed the company and provided it with a solid foundation for growth and profitability. In 2017 the Board through a scheme of merger sanctioned by the Federal High Court, merged with Intafact Beverages Limited and Pabod Breweries Limited (companies with similar objects) in other to provide for the optimization of efficiencies, leverage on economies of scale ensure shareholder value creation amongst others. Financials For the nine months ended September 2018, the company reported a loss after tax of N7.137 billion as against a profit of N1.429 billion posted in 2017. Cost of sales stood at N54.591 billion from N20.234 billion in 2017. However, revenue rose to N83.346 billion in 2018 from N36.527 billion in 2017. According to analysts at FBNQuest,” International Breweries’ (IB) Q3 2018 (end-Sep) results were broadly behind our estimates. Sales for the quarter surprised positively (+13 per cent) but this was more than offset by a 500bp underperformance in EBIT margin. Consequently, Q3 pre-tax losses were 83 per cent worse than forecast. “Although IB’s sales have lately been driven by additional volumes coming from its recently-commissioned Sagamu Plant, margins remain under pressure. Of more concern, the company’s performance has not lived up to post-merger projections, as expected synergies have failed to materialise. Indeed, published results post-merger suggest that inefficiencies may be coming from Pabod and/or Intafact, and these are weighing on combined earnings. “Given Q3 results, we have made significant cuts to our earnings estimates over the 2018-20E period and revised our price target downwards by around 34 per cent to N31.1. Year to date, IB shares have lost -43.6%, worse than the broad index which is down -19.6 per cent. From current levels, the shares show an upside potential of +7 per cent to our fair value estimate. That said, considering our negative outlook on earnings over our forecast period, we retain our Neutral rating on the stock. International Breweries Plc. reported a loss after tax of N3.866 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2018 as against loss of N1.395 billion posted during the period ended December 2017. Loss before tax equally stood at N8.049 billion during the period under review from N3.233 billion during the comparable period of 2017.” Revenue however, grew to N120.610 billion during the period from N36.527 billion in 2017, amounting to 230 per cent increase, while cost of sales grew to 221 per cent to N73.270 billion from N22.819 billion in 2017. International Breweries Plc. reported a loss after tax of N3.987 billion during the first quarter ended March 2019, from N2.240 billion loss reported in March 2018. Loss before tax stood at N5.085 billion for the first quarter as against loss of N2.557 billion posted in March 2018. Revenue dropped by 39 per cent to N36.096 billion in 2019 from N25.966 billion recorded earlier while cost of sales stood at N22.609 billion from N15.857 billion in 2018, accounting for 42.58 per cent increase. Marketing strategies/outlook International Breweries recently hosted its distribution partners across the country to a gala night in Lagos. The event was an opportunity for the company’s distributors, trade partners and other key stakeholders within the distribution value chain to exchange ideas, as well as deepen business relationships. It also provided the company an opportunity to fete and commend the performance of the distributor partners, with those who had excelled in their performance in the recent financial year, winning delectable prizes. Delivering her remarks, Managing Director, International Breweries Plc, Mrs. Annabelle Degroot, said the successes the company recorded in 2018 would not have been possible without their hard work and commitment. While commending the stellar performance, however, Degroot reminded the distribution partners that standing still was not an option, but going forward, adding that as a very ambitious organisation keen on meeting the needs of consumers across the country, neither the International Breweries Plc  nor its trade and distribution partners would rest on their oars. Speaking on the role and the relationship that exists between the company and its valued distributors, National Sales Director, Godwin Oche said: “Our distributor-partners play a very critical role in our supply chain and I am particularly proud of the synergy that exists between them and our team.” The company also recently flagged off the 2019 edition of its Kickstart, an innovative youth entrepreneurship programme that empowers young people with the financial muscle and training to implement different entrepreneurial ventures. ‘Kickstart’ was introduced in 2016 to empower young entrepreneurs knowing that the growth of Nigeria increasingly depends on the ability of its enterprising youth population to unlock their entrepreneurial potential. The programme, which was only available to youths in the South East and South West, was now open to all youths across Nigeria. The coverage expansion follows the newly established Foundation, which has consolidated the management of all corporate social investment (CSI) initiatives of the company. This edition focuses mainly on critical areas of agriculture, recycling, manufacturing, healthcare, education, ICT, water stewardship, climate action and crafts among others. The initiative underscores the company’s support for Nigeria’s attainment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular Goal 8 on Decent Work and Economic Growth, and five other related goals. Addressing shareholders at the 41 Annual General Meeting  (AGM), Chairman of the Company,  Sunday Akintoye Omole said: “We remain optimistic for the outlook for 2018 and beyond. We will continue to develop and differentiate our brand portfolios, taking opportunities to grow sales and improve our mix. With the exciting news of our Sagamu brewery coming on line mid-year 2018, we will have capacity to continue our expansion plans. “Focus will be maintained on cost effectiveness and synergy delivery. Healthy cash generation will again be a priority. We will target investments in production capacity, marketing and sales capability and business systems in order to drive medium-term growth” According to analysts at FBNQuest, due to improved fx liquidity, “we believe there is limited risk of additional fx losses in the near term. We also expect the company to benefit from improved cost synergies following the merger. We have forecast PBT margin to average around 17 per cent over the 2017-19E period compared with 8 per cent recorded in FY 2017(end-Mar). We see EPS growth of 33 per cent y/y on average over the same period. “Looking ahead, we see IB continuing to undercut competitors in its attempt to gain more market share. We also expect that it will aggressively push more of its brands into the Lagos market (an important market for the Brewers) following increased capacity at Sagamu. “We, however, see IB’s price competition coming at the expense of margins, which are already constrained. In our view, to ease pressure on bottom line, IB’s management may need to look to take further steps to reduce expensive debt and/or shift to equity sources of financing.” Last line Though operational challenges have remarkably weighed down on the manufacturing sector, it is pertinent for the company to continue to manage its cost base tightly to deliver moderate operating margins improvement for growth and profitability.