The Nigerian Army, yesterday, offered free medical services and drugs to the residents of Ajeromi/Ifelodun Local government Area of  Lagos State. The Army medical team, who were on ground, as early as 8am, at the Local government  Secretariat on Baale street Ajegunle,  diagnosed ; High blood pressure, Iron Deficiency,  Anaemia, Sickle Cell, Diabetes, Eye care, amongst others, while  those with serious health cases were advised to go to  nearby hospitals. The Medical Outreach programme, was one of the activities preceding, Nigerian Army Day Celebration,(NADCEL), on July 6th. The Corps Commander, Nigerian Army  Signals, Lagos, Maj. Gen. Muhammed Muhammed  said that, “It is not only medical outreach that the Army intervenes, but we decided to chose medical this year.” He explained further, “We also go into quick inter- projects in the environment or the society, on what they are lacking. Whether, the Schools are dilapidated or not well equipped. Sometimes, it could be water problem, so our outreach programme cuts across so many areas.” On why the outreach is significant, the Corps Commander said, “The Military draws its personnel from the Society. If the society is not in good health, you can’t get a good society; you can’t get good development, because workforce depends on the healthy mind. “So, if you can’t have a healthy body, it means the workforce is going to be having health challenges.” According to him, “The essence of the Outreach was to reach out to every person that finds themselves here would be assessed on whatever treatment. The Army does not have a projected number of people to benefit from the free services and drugs. “We have enough to go round, those that have eye defects and need eye glasses, Blood Pressure, Mosquito net, Anti-Malaria drugs, we have made provision for all kinds of  health issues.” The Executive ChairmanAjeromi/Ifelodun local government, Honourable Ayoola Adekunle commended the Nigerian Army on its  kind gesture adding that if there is any referral  that the Council will make sure that they  take over such  case  and hand them  over to the appropriate health authorities. Other areas in the Lagos metropolis where the Nigerian Army extended the free medical services were Ajegunle in Ikorodu, Lagos International Trade Fair Complex, Badagry  express way and Sura at Lagos Island.