CHUKWU DAVID reports that the 9th Senate, unusually reduced the 2019 ministerial screening to largely, a mere endorsement hearing as more than half of the nominees were asked to just “take a bow and go,” without answering questions from the senators as well as went through the process without submitting their certificates of assets declaration as required by law  T he word screen in simple English means to examine in order to test suitability. In other words, to screen ministerial nominees means to thoroughly scrutinize the nominees with a view to ascertaining their suitability or competence to hold such exalted office as a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.  At the country’s return to civil rule in 1999, those who were nominated as ministers by the then President Olusegun Obasanjo, were thoroughly grilled before they were finally confirmed for appointment to various ministerial positions.   However, in the process of time, particularly in 2003, the lawmakers saw the need to make some provisions in their rule book, for former members of the National Assembly, who are nominated for any level of appointment, which requires Senate confirmation, to be granted a privilege to “take a bow and go,” thereby making confirmation and appointment of such people automatic.  This privilege was limited former members of the National Assembly in the Fifth, Sixth, Seventh and Eighth Senate, and never extended to any other categories of nominees.   However, at the commencement of the 2019 ministerial screening by the Ninth Senate, the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, urged his colleagues to widen the scope of beneficiaries of the privilege, by extending it to nominees who have served in the states Assembly.   They senators also resolved to extend the privilege to female nominees and nominees from constituencies of presiding and principal officers such as the President of the Senate, the Deputy President of the Senate, and the Majority Leader of the Senate, among others.   This expansion by the Senate consciously or unconsciously made the list of the nominees qualified to enjoy the privilege very large, and it practically became a problem as well as a scandal to the Senate, to the extent that even some senators were appalled by the trend and attempted to truncate it.  Accordingly, as the Senate commenced the confirmation hearing on Wednesday last week after receiving the list from President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday, many Nigerians rose to heavily condemn the approach, describing it as a charade.   Most Nigerians tackled the Upper Chamber on the ground that the “take a bow and go” policy has been abused as well as apparently made mockery of the revered nation’s highest legislative institution. They further decried that it amounted to a waste of Nigerians productive hours.   The critics pointed out that the trend won’t help the country as sentiments are now the indices used to approve the nominees’ appointments rather their intellectual potency and experience.   The ‘take a bow and go’ arrangement began in 2003 and it was introduced as a courtesy and privilege for any nominees who has been elected to the Senate or House of Representatives in the past.   The Ninth Senate has now extended the privilege to all persons with previous legislative experience at state levels. Some Nigerians said that they witnessed the worst screening exercise in the history of the country with nominees, related to lawmakers who were asked to “take a bow.”   Based on the criteria, some of the beneficiaries include Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom), George Akume (Benue), Emeka Nwajiuba (Imo), Olorunnimbe Mamora (Lagos), Rotimi Amaechi (Rivers), Tayo Alasoadura (Ondo).   Others are Mustapha Shehuri (Borno), Timipre Sylva (Bayelsa), Abubakar Aliyu (Yobe), Sharon Ikeazor (Anambra), Ramatu Aliyu (Kogi), Sadiya Umar Farouk (Zamfara) were excluded from being grilled.   The privilege was further extended to Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti), Chris Ngige (Anambra) and Muhammadu Bello (Adamawa).   The Senate minority leader, Enyinaya Abaribe had called the attention of the Senate to the negative effects of the policy. He stated that in global parliamentary practices, confirmation hearings are conducted for nominees to access their competence and qualification for the appointment of being a minister. He explained that confirmation hearings are different from endorsement hearings.   Abaribe said: “This is a confirmation hearing, it is not  an endorsement hearing and I so move that we abide by what the constitution says.”   Section 147 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which granted the Senate the power to confirm appointments does not make a provision for the ‘take a bow’ policy.   Another great flaw that trailed the ministerial screening by the Senate was that the Chamber acted in breach of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) by screening ministerial nominees, who did not submit their certificates of assets declaration before appearing for screening.   Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo (Bayelsa West) disclosed this last week Friday, through a point of order. He pointed out that the constitution stipulates that for every nominee by Mr. President, whois supposed to occupy any office, especially a ministerial nominee, that individual has to submit his or her certificate of assets declaration.   The lawmaker, however, observed that the Senate had, since Wednesday it commenced screening of the ministerial nominees, been going through the process including screening those that did not present their certificates of assets declaration.   Ewhrudjakpo stressed that since the Buhari administration has laid so much emphasis on fight against corruption, it must not just be a lip service, but should be practically demonstrated in carrying out all its functions at all levels of governance.   He insisted that since the exercise was just a screening stage, he would insist at the confirmation stage that the nominees who had submitted their assets declaration certificates should do so, failure of which, he would request that they should be disqualified.   The lawmaker pointed out that his observation was not in any way a mark of witch-hunt against the affected persons, but rather, to ensure that the provisions of the law are followed by strictly adhering to due process.   Addressing journalists on the matter, he said: “The constitution requires the president, vice president, the service chiefs and heads of extra-ministerial departments to declare their assets before they are screened.   “But I noticed that it was not the trend with this screening and I decided to draw the attention of the Senate President to this fact. A few of them have complied, but majority of them have not complied.    “It is a breach of the constitution. If we are fighting corruption, we must be seen to be doing so. We should know what they are worth before coming to office and what they are worth at the end of their tenure.   “We are not witch-hunting anybody. Before we go into the confirmation stage, this is just the screening, we will take all the documents, and at that point, if the certificates of asset declaration are not there, we will draw the attention of the Senate to disqualify such candidates.”   The President of the Senate, had while responding to the point of order, noted that some of the nominees complied by submitting their certificates of assets declaration before appearing. He, however, noted that defaulters would do so before confirmation.  Whether this anomaly would be corrected later or not, the belief is that the Senate actually violated the process because the assets declaration certificate ought to be one of the documents to be scrutinized at the confirmation hearing before subjecting a nominee to screening. 