 I t is a common practice among politicians to quickly prepare their severance and other allowances and issue their cheques even before they leave office at the expiration of their tenure. However, it is with snail and reluctant speed that they allow payment of gratuities of pensioners to be disbursed to them after leaving civil service.   While many senior citizens (pensioners) wallow in abject poverty for months or years before their entitlements could be processed and released to them, politicians, among them many, that had even retired in their various fields before being clinching other elective or appointive posts, smile home even with series of largesse of office.   This scenario of inequality and bastardisation of equitable trust among humans threw itself up recently in Oyo State when Governor Seyi Makinde unearthed a seeming rape of the Oyo people’s collective patrimony by the last administration of Senator Abiola Ajimobi.   Makinde and his maiden appointed officials could not have any official vehicles to use in the discharge of their duties. The Chief of Staff, Chief Olabisi Ilaka, told journalists that Ajimobi, his wife (Florence) and many of their aides had made away with their official vehicles leaving him, the governor and even Head of Service, Mrs. Ololade Agboola with no option than to be using their personal vehicles to carry on with their official assignments.   Makinde raised the alarm and warned that all the last government’s officials who went away with their official vehicles should return them, stressing that they remained the people’s patrimony. The vehicles were purchased with state’s money and so should have been left behind for the service of the state.   To many people, it was a mark of greed and an act of insensitivity on the part of Senator Ajimobi and his aides towards the incoming government of Makinde of the Peoples Democratic Party. In a State where hundreds of billions of naira were found to have been left as debt for the incoming administration, should the new government start to allocate money for purchase of another set of service vehicles for its officials when most of the ones carted away were bought brand new about three months to the exit of the past government?   A discordant tune rented the air shortly afterwards when some officials of the past government denied ever stealing any government, asking Makinde to shun mundane things, and rather face the serious business of governance. The government was even told to name anyone who stole or went away with official vehicles.   Makinde and his aides insisted that Ajimobi, his wife and aides indeed went away with government vehicles, vowing to recover them at all cost if they refused to return them voluntarily.   In the course of the allegation, counter allegation and denials, the government of Makinde on July 12, 2019 announced recovery of 13 vehicles among the horde taken away by Ajimobi’s officials. Barely two weeks after, five more vehicles were recovered from some mechanic workshops where they were abandoned. One of the vehicles was abandoned close to Government House without  the ignition key on it.   Sunday Telegraph’s investigation revealed that one of the past senior civil servants went away with a N35 million brand new car bought in February, barely three months to the expiration of the government’s tenure. Report has it that the senior official only paid N270,000 to purchase and personalise the vehicle.   In a heated debate on a private radio station recently, Alhaji Bola Akinyemi (Director General of Olabisi Ilaka Campaign Organisation), said it categorically that ex-Governor Abiola Ajimobi, went away with three vehicles, while his wife Florence went away with seven vehicles, just as many of the aides also went away with their official vehicles.   Though they had been denying the allegation of theft of the government vehicles, a loyalist of Ajimobi and past Chairman of the Omi Apata Local Council Development Area, Adeniyi Oyekunle, who engaged Akinyemi on a radio debate, expressed disgust at the dust created from the declaration that some government vehicles were stolen by officials of the past administration.     To Oyekunle, a legal practitioner, Makinde was just making a fuss over nothing substantial. He said: “Every official that went away with their official vehicles did it legally because they got it through the approval of then Governor Ajimobi.”   In his argument, Oyekunle said all the officials who went away with their official vehicles wrote to the governor asking whether they should go with their official vehicles as part of their severance allowance and it was granted. The papers are here as record of evidence. It is part of the perks (perquisites) of office and such is done everywhere. Executive Officers of companies are allowed to go away with the official vehicles they use in office. “There is no big deal about it. It is one of the ways of appreciating any official who had served the organisation meritoriously. I don’t know why Governor Makinde is making a fuss out of ordinary vehicles instead of facing the business of governance,” he had said.   Akinyemi, the PDP man, would, however, not agree with Oyekunle’s submission as he said that: “It is a shame that a public official, politician who was taken care of for a whole eight years out of the public funds, would still feel insatiable as to think that property of the government that provided for all his needs for eight years should be carted away. It is simply a thiefing idea. These are property bought with people’s money. What else would any such public official say he still needs? If anybody is saying that it is the tradition, this PDP government of Engineer Seyi Makinde does not believe in that and will not tolerate it.” Recalling that he was part of Late Governor Lam Adesina’s government, Akinyemi said that every vehicle used by all government officials then were submitted to the traffic poll and accounted for then. To him, it was outlandish and a misnormer to now justify the situation where government officials would go away with government property. He pooh-poohed Oyekunle’s defence when he added that any appointed company officials could be allowed to go with their official vehicles, “but the vehicles we are talking of here were not bought by any company or organisation, but with the people’s money. Why not allow the people to continue to enjoy their property? Why must some few individuals go away with the property of the masses simply because they held had some political offices for few years?,” Akinyemi had fumed. Speaking on behalf of the governor, his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, had referred to the press conference held at the Press Centre of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Iyaganku, where the former Education Commissioner Professor Adeniyi Olowofela had led other former aides to disparage some claims of Makinde’s administration regarding the debts left by Ajimobi, saying that some officials of the incumbent administration were ambushing and harassing them in the streets all in a bid to collect government vehicles they had hoarded back.  Adisa described those justifying the theft of the vehicles as “shameless and unconscionable people”. In a release he made available to the press, Adisa had said that “the attention of the Government of Oyo state has been drawn to a news report which indicated that some officials of the immediate past administration in the state raised issues about the manner in which the state is retrieving vehicles illegally carted away by some of their colleagues. “Let us make it abundantly clear that there is no iota of truth in the claims by the former Commissioners and officials of the immediate past government. The Government of Engineer Seyi Makinde had sworn itself to a commitment to probity and accountability. “It would be recalled that the incumbent government in Oyo State issued an ultimatum to officials of the immediate past administration who illegally carted away government vehicles and other properties to return such or risk being reported to the security agencies. “The decision was informed by the monumental impunity the new administration in the state has uncovered so far.  Even on Inauguration Day, it was so bad that the inauguration committee had to scamper here and there to source vehicles for the new governor and his deputy. “As we speak, Governor Makinde and his Deputy are compelled to rely on their personal vehicles for use as convoy cars in the discharge of their duties. The same is true of other government officials appointed so far.   “And that is despite the records which show that huge sums were expended on the purchase of new cars in the last year of the immediate past administration. Indeed, a number of such cars were purchased about three months to the end of that government.   “This government will not permit anyone to mix up facts in an attempt to defend a strange tradition of ‘vultures in governance’ which is diametrically opposed to the Service Agenda of the Makinde administration.   “There is a clear difference when a vehicle is boarded and the appropriate amount paid. The records at the disposal of government clearly demarcate the illegally taken cars from the boarded vehicles.   “We also make bold to state that the officials charged with recovery of the said cars and the security operatives have so far been very civil in their procedures and no fewer than 19 cars have been recovered.  “Television cameras were on the toe of the officials who recovered the last set of five vehicles and those who took the cars away are well documented. There is no government instrument or law of the State House of Assembly that permits vehicles to be taken away ‘free of charge’ or in the exercise of ‘discretionary powers’ as shown in a memo elements of the past government secretly leaked in a bid to blackmail the incumbent government.   “Because the government in place in Oyo is all about probity, openness, and accountability, it will not condone attempts to seize public property or distribute them like a Father Christmas in the twilight of his trade.   “It is disheartening that some persons who have had the opportunity of serving our dear state, a state of Omoluabi, would openly defend any absurdity or propensity to loot government property in a manner that debases the true Omoluabi culture that defines us here,” Adisa had written.   An aide of the present administration, Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeniyan, last week openly admitted that he led some men to track down the already recovered vehicles.    Apparently miffed by the media reports over the development, Olopoeniyan, who  disclosed that he led some people “to recover government vehicles from where they hide them” by officials of Ajimobi government, said those addressing the media over the matter were shameless.   According to the PDP chief: “These people were in government from May 29, 2011 till May 29, 2019 and yet they were not satisfied with all the booties in their care and perks they derived so far from holding positions of authority.   “I can’t deny that government stolen vehicles carted away by them are being recovered daily, let them keep quiet or we will be forced to expose the atrocities further.   “It is true I led people to recover the vehicles where they were hidden. We got information that if we didn’t arrive where the vehicles were parked, they could be moved away. We know the police may not act on it before they (vehicles) are relocated, because of official demands and other consideration, so I led people there; got their keys and I asked the drivers to take them to Government House.   “It would have been an offence if on recovery of such vehicles as claimed, I asked the drivers I took there to drive them to my house. But this is a case of ensuring that government vehicles stolen by some people are retrieved and taken to Agodi Government House.   “If the Government House was possible to cart away, these people would have done so. The level of their alleged theft of government property was mind-boggling. They ought to have approached the police to invite me for the said robbery.    “We have gotten more information and lead on more vehicles. We will go after them because those vehicles were bought with tax payers’ money. Some of us feel that denying PDP government access to those vehicles will stifle performance of our government.   He further wondered why official vehicles with no trace of scars or faulty engines, could be taken to motor mechanic and splattered with mud, with a view to concealing them for the use of new officials.