Pan-Igbo socio-cultural organiation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, yesterday dissociated itself from a youth group that goes by the name; ‘Coalition of Ohanaeze Youths Groups,’ which recently gave the Federal Government a 7-day ultimatum to proscribe the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), otherwise known as Shi’ites. In a statement signed by Chief Emeka Attamah, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President- General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Nnia Nwodo, the socio-cultural organisation said one Ogbonna Ogbonna, who purportedly signed the vexatious release, was not known to the organisation. The statement made available to journalists in Enugu stated; “The attention of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has been drawn to a precipitous release by a group that calls itself the Coalition of Ohanaeze Youths Groups giving the Federal Government a 7-day ultimatum to declare the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), a terrorist group. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo dissociates itself from this irrational outburst of a group not known to or registered with it. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo further states that the said Ogbonna Ogbonna, who purportedly signed the vexatious release, is not known to Ohanaeze Ndigbo. “It is necessary for the umpteenth time to warn individuals and groups to desist forthwith from frivolous use of the name of Ohanaeze Ndigbo to carry out their nefarious activities or seek cheap publicity.” The pan-Igbo socio-cultural group further stated that it might be forced to institute a legal action against any subsequent unmindful use of its name to cause any form of disenchantment in the society. It further stated that while it was averse to violence of any sort, it has no locus standi to issue an ultimatum to the Federal Government on the uprising by the Shi’ite Muslims. Ohanaeze Ndigbo, however, reiterated its call on “the Federal Government to de-proscribe the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), who were unarmed and constitute no threat to the peace of the country, but are only advocating for self-determination. “It amounts to double standard for the Federal Government to proscribe IPOB, but refuse to declare Boko Haram and marauding herdsmen, terrorist organisations.”