T  he BBNaija ‘Pepper Dem’ housemates once again took part in another round of nominations on Monday night.   As with each nomination process, the housemates get to put up two of their fellow housemates up for possible eviction. With last Sunday’s eviction hammer still fresh in their memories, the housemates have come to understand the rules of the game. They each took turns in the diary room to make their nominations as usual, but it turned out that ‘Biggie’ had other plans.   In what could have been Jeff and Thelma topping the list with six and five nomination nods respectively, Biggie in yet another twist announces that all 16 housemates have been nominated and hence up for possible eviction next week Sunday. The reason for this decision as Biggie later revealed was their punishment for disobeying house rules which he said included: refusal to attend morning workout sessions, whispering and speaking inaudibly amongst other infringements.   Khafi unluckily does not have the option to replace or save herself as her Veto Power, which she won during the Veto Power Holder Game of Chance on Sunday night, was made redundant. She will now join the rest of the nominees who are up for possible eviction tonight during the live evection show   Although the voting lines officially closed, for subsequent evections, fans can always their favourite housemate to stay in the Big Brother Naija house via SMS by texting VOTE and the NAME of the HOUSEMATE to 32052 (SMS costs N30 for Nigeria only). Fans can also VOTE FOR FREE on the website and mobile site – africamagic.tv/bigbrother. With the all new MyDStv & MyGOtv Apps, fans can get additional 100 VOTES for their preferred housemate. Download the MyDStv or MyGOtv app today on the iOS or Android mobile app store. Voting on the MyDStv and MyGOtv apps is open only to subscribers in Nigeria.   Keep up with the BBNaija ‘Pepper Dem’ housemates LIVE and 24/7 on all DStv packages on channel 198 and on GOtv Max and GOtv Plus packages only on GOtv channel 29/Ghana 129/Uganda 329.