The head of the technical team of the maiden Africa Ultra Race Championship, scheduled to hold in Sagamu, Ogun State, on December 7, Norrie Williamson, has applauded the country and the patent holder of the race, Nilayo Sports Marketing Limited, for coming up with the idea and facilities to host the first African championships.  Williamson, a South African, while congratulating Nigeria said despite the race gaining prominence in his country, it was surprising that Nigeria will be hosting the continent for the first time. Though Ultra Race has been in existence for 35 years with South Africa regularly staging local races, the African tournament, where all runners will converge on a location for the Ultra Race, has never been organised.  The maiden tournament, which is tagged Value Jet International Africa Ultra Race Championship Remo 2019, is also going to be the first-ever ultra race competition in the world where prize monies will be given to winners. The winner of the race will be going home with $5,000 with second and third place winning $3,000 and $1,000 respectively.  “This means a lot to me. I could hardly think that this is going to happen in Nigeria,” he said. “It’s always done in South Africa. It is really exciting to have it here. It will boost sports not just in the stadiums but on the streets of Nigeria.  “Tactics, strength and strategy are going to be critical in the race because of the structure of the road. The first in the start may not be the first at end. “I expect a strong team from South Africa because they have hosted a number of races. I must say that Nigeria has the  potential of a very good race and hope that the road issue be sorted out, including cutting of grasses.”  Also speaking ahead of the race, the chairman of Ogun State Athletic Association and Olympian, Falilat Ogunkoya, said the race would put Ogun State on the world map.  According to her, it is going to be a historic day in the city of Sagamu and the whole of Ogun State. She added: “It will bring a lot of awareness about the town, businesses will boom; it will showcase Remoland and Sagamu especially; it’s going to be a historic thing and will bring a lot of good things to Sagamu, Ogun State and Nigeria as a whole.”