RESCUE MISSION
Worried by the controversies that trailed the conversion of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta to Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology (MAUSTECH) by the former Ibikunle Amosun’s administration, and its failure to take off two years after, Governor Dapo Abiodun has set up a committee to salvage the troubled institutions   A major leap that will transform and salvage the crisis-ridden Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta and determine the fate of two other institutions that sprouted from the state-owned polytechnic has been taken by the Ogun State Government.
To rescue the polytechnic, as well as determine the fate of two institutions that budded from the institution, named after the late acclaimed winner of June 12, 1993 presidential election in the country and business mogul, Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (M.KO) Abiola, the state Governor and Moderator to the institutions, Dapo Abiodun, penultimate week had announced the composition of a Review Committee to look into the operational modalities of Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology (MAUSTECH), Abeokuta and Ogun State Polytechnic, Ipokia, which were created by the immediate past administration of Senator Ibikunle Amosun.
The Committee is headed by the former Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology in the state and erstwhile Vice-Chancellor of Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun, Prof. Segun Awonusi, with the Herculean task to salvage the institutions.
The Governor Amosun’s administration had in April 2017 announced the conversion of MAPOLY to MAUSTECH and commenced the transformation process of the polytechnic to university, and created a new polytechnic at Ipokia, an agrarian community of the state.
To facilitate the take-off of the university, the governor immediately set up a Technical Committee, headed by a former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Peter Okebukola, to midwife the conversion of the polytechnic to university.
But, realizing the danger in the state government’s action, the polytechnic lecturers publicly declared war on Okebukola, who they accused of plotting a mass sack and carrying out actions that contradicted his mandate.
At some point, the workers’ unions, however, protested the state government and committee’s action by shutting down the institution several times and declared Prof. Okebukola “persona non-grata.”
Despite, the NUC on July 3, 2017 presented a Letter of Approval for the upgrade of MAPOLY to a university of science and technology to a delegation of Ogun State Government, led by Governor Amosun at the Headquarters of the Commission in Abuja.
Few weeks after the approval licence was secured for the conversion of the institution, Amosun performed the ground-breaking and foundation laying of the new polytechnic in Ipokia, assuring the people that his administration would work assiduously towards meeting the mid-November deadline given by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), the agency supervising polytechnic education, for the provision of basic infrastructure at the new institution.
The governor further explained that the institutions were created in response to the need to accommodate the increasing number of youths seeking tertiary education and to also promote development of required scientists and technologists for socio-economic development of the state.
Amosun’s decision, however, generated mixed reactions, especially as it was coming at a time when accusations of poor funding of existing tertiary institutions in the state were rife.
The berth of Ogun State Polytechnic, Ipokia, which was designed to run as multi-campus, with campuses in Imeko and Idiroko respectively, brought to nine the number of state-owned tertiary institutions in the Gateway State.
The other institutions are Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU) Ago-Iwoye; Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun; Moshood Abiola Polytechnic, Abeokuta; DS Adegbenro ICT Polytechnic, Itori; Ogun State Institute of Technology, Igbesa; Keshington Adebutu Polytechnic, Saapade; Abraham Adesanya Polytechnic, Ijebu-Igbo; and Tai Solarin College of Education (TASCE), Omu-Ijebu.
These institutions again co-exist with more than other dozen federal and private tertiary institutions located across the state.
Meanwhile, to some stakeholders, establishment of additional institutions would further compound the financial burden of the state government and aggravate the challenges bedeviling the state’s education sector.
As a result, members of academic and non-academic staff, as well as students and other stakeholders in MAPOLY became worried, as the development resulted to series of industrial actions which destabilised academic programmes and calendar of the polytechnic for several months.
But, despite the crisis the action generated, Governor Amosun stuck to his guns and intensified the construction of physical structures at Ipokia Polytechnic campus, while pursuing accreditation of courses for the two new institutions.
In fact, the governor accused MAPOLY lecturers of blackmailing his administration, while he also allayed the fears of students of the polytechnic that their education would not be disrupted.
Also, few weeks to the expiration of his tenure, Amosun constituted management teams as well as Governing Councils for both MAUSTECH and Ipokia Polytechnic, but which their take off failed to be realised.
Miffed by the development and its negative impacts on the education growth of the state, Governor Abiodun had ordered that MAPOLY should revert to status quo ante with full academic activities restored, while the committee is to determine the way forward for MAUSTECH and the polytechnic in Ipokia.
Incidentally, in the heat of the controversy that rocked the upgrading of MAPOLY to university in 2017, Awonusi had proffered some solutions to the crisis.
Specifically in October 2017, Awonusi, a Professor of English at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) had said inter alia that the crisis at the institution would have been averted if the state government had learned from the previous experience of the creation of TASUED/TASCE.
He said: “The needless crisis would have been avoided if Ogun State Government had learned from the experience of the management of a similar TASUED/TASCE crisis in the past. In the first place, the state government should not have scrapped MAPOLY,while the new MAUSTECH was being established.
“If MAPOLY were not scrapped, then Ogun State Government has a legitimate right to transfer the institution’s location to anywhere it pleases, while the contractual relationship between Ogun State Government (via MAPOLY Governing Council as immediate employers) and the workers (now represented by the unions) would remain intact. The government has a right to embark on the internal transfer or deployment of any staff to any location, where the establishment of the institution resides.
“The implication is that if MAPOLY had not been scrapped by statute and simply related to Ipokia (name can be changed to Ogun Polytechnic, Ipokia later), then the workers will no longer have the right to argue that they cannot be moved or transferred to the same institution’s new location.
“Ogun State Government can then, as act of motivation and corporate social conscience, pay reasonable relocation allowance to the workers. If, however, any worker is still not satisfied, he can then resign his appointment, and or apply to be employed by the new MAUSTECH if such a vacancy exists.”
Since Governor Abiodun took over the mantle of leadership in the state on May 29, 2019, stakeholders had expected the administration’s intervention in MAPOLY’s critical situation with a view to saving the soul of the polytechnic.
The intervention eventually came when the governor constituted the Prof. Awonusi-led committee to look into the operational modalities of MAUSTECH and Ipokia Polytechnic, and reverted MAPOLY to former status.
The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, noted that MAPOLY had been comatose since the creation of MAUSTECH and Ipokia Polytechnic by former administration.
He, therefore, expressed concern that as a result of the unresolved issues, the fate of candidates and students of the polytechnic and their lecturers had continued to hang in the balance.
Abiodun said: “As a responsible government, we cannot fold our arms and allow the situation to continue. We cherish human capital development. This committee is therefore set up to holistically review the status, viability and sustainability of these newly established institutions.”
Members of the Awonusi-led committee include former MAPOLY Rector, Alhaji Waheed Kadiri; National President of Workplace Educators and Managers Association of Nigeria (WEMAN), Prof. Joseph Odemuyiwa; and a Chief Lecturer at the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Dr. Biodun Oluseye.
Other members are a seasoned lawyer, Mr. Abeeb Wale Ajayi; National President of MAPOLY Alumni Association, Mr. H.O. Ayoade; while Dr. Waheed Olanloye, Director Primary and Tertiary Education in the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology will serve as the committee’s Secretary.
The committee’s five-prong terms of reference are to ascertaining the current operational status of the institutions; and identifying issues and challenges related to their establishment and operations.
The Awonusi panel is also to determine the viability and sustainability of the institutions on a long-term basis; identify any other issue(s) related to the objectives of the assignment; and make recommendations for the consideration of the state government.
The committee, which has eight weeks to submit its report and recommendations, was last week inaugurated by Governor Abiodun in his office, where he expressed dismay at the inability of MAUSTECH to take off two years after it was established.
The governor, who also expressed worry over the uncertainty surrounding the survival of the old polytechnic, said: “What is befuddling is that two years down the lane, even if one could pardon the inability of the new university to take off, the uncertainty surrounding the survival of the old polytechnic could not be ignored.”
Abiodun, therefore, described education as the pride industry of Ogun State, saying that to achieve the mission of building the state together, it was expedient for his administration to provide qualitative education to the youths.
As part of his administration’s rescue mission for the state’s education sector, the governor similarly inaugurated the Prof. Kamal Balogun-led Visitation Panel on Tai Solarin College of Education (TASCE), Omu-Ijebu.
While inaugurating the visitation panel, he said his government was putting machinery in motion to reverse the misfortune confronting the state-owned college.
Also, members of the panel include Prof. John Aihonsu, Mr. Julius Adeyemi, Hon. Adewale Ojuri, Mr. Joseph Onabanjo, Dr. Dapo Odukoya and Mr. Samuel Adeetan.
The visitation panel, the governor reiterated, was set up to determine the viability and sustainability of the institution.
As part of its terms of reference, the visitation panel would also conduct a holistic review of the current status of the college and recommend the way forward to restoring the institution’s lost glory and reposition it for the challenges of the 21st Century.
Abiodun, who decried the poor state of affairs and infrastructure at the college, called for stakeholders’ intervention in the areas of content, quality and staffing of the institution.
Responding on behalf of other members, Prof. Awonusi, however, thanked the state government for the confidence reposed in them, and assured them that the committees would readily key into the administration’s vision and passion for the reform in the education sector.
Meanwhile, the MAPOLY chapters of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP); Non-Academic Staff Unions of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) and the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP), have commended Governor Abiodun for restoring the status of the institution with full academic activities.
The three unions in separate statements issued in Abeokuta, applauded the governor for taking a bold step towards undoing the logjam stagnating the institution.
ASUP, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Babatunde Osifalujo, stressed that the decision to convert the polytechnic to MAUSTECH was done with no regards to the fate of staff and students of the institution.
The union said: “No doubt, MAPOLY has become a shadow of itself since the not-well-thought-out decision of the immediate past administration in the state to convert same to Moshood Abiola University of Science and Technology with no regards to the fate of students and staff of the polytechnic, which hanged in the balance.
“The pronouncement to revert to status quo ante with full academic activities restored, has rekindled the spirit with which the institution was nurtured to a self-sustaining status, and we thank the governor for this.”