Police attached to Iba Police Station, Iba Town, Lagos, have arrested a 38-year-old man, Daniel Isaac, who alleged absconded with his landlord’s car after killing him at the Ikotun area. Witnesses claimed that the landlord, Don Able (58), was killed at Owodun Street, Ikotun, after which his body was dumped inside a well in his compound.  Isaac was arrested alongside his accomplice, Emmanuel Chukwu (36), by detectives attached to Iba Police Station, during a ‘stop-andsearch’ at First Gate, Agboroko area, Iba Town, about 5a.m. on July 24. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, confirmed the incident yesterday.  He said: “On July 24, about 5a.m., policemen from Iba Police Station, who were on a ‘stop-andsearch’ duty at First Gate, Agboroko area, Iba, flagged down a Toyota Camry car, which was driving in a reckless and suspicious manner.  The two occupants of the vehicle were arrested immediately. “During investigation, it was discovered that Isaac had killed his landlord and dumped his corpse in a well, inside his compound at Owodun Street area, Ikotun.  Daniel was escaping with the deceased’s vehicle, along with his accomplice, Emmanuel Chukwu, when they were intercepted.” Elkana said that the intention of the suspects was to sell the sto- len car. He added: “They also confessed to the crime. Detectives attached to Homicide Section from the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, are investigating the case.  The suspects would soon be charged to court after completion of the investigation.” In another development on July 24, about 11.15a.m, Satellite Town Police Station, received information from a credible source, that a bag containing a suspicious item was smuggle into a motor park for onward transfer to Onitsha, Anambra State by unknown persons.  Based on the information, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Chike Oti, deployed his surveillance team to the motor park at Maza-Maza to recover the bag. When the bag was searched, 50 rounds of .38mm live ammunition hidden inside garri were recovered. A lady, who claimed that the bag was given to her by a man in Ojo area to deliver to someone at Onitsha, was arrested. She is presently helping the police with useful information.   The case has been transferred to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) for further investigations.