Air Traffic Controllers have been urged to give proper attention to their level of stress before it posed significant effect to their body. Head of Medical Unit, Kupa Aero Medical, Dr. Andrew Enumah in a paper presentation entitled ‘’Air Traffic Control and management, at the induction of newly rated and licensed ATC’s  noted that stress posed a lot of danger on an Air Traffic Controller if not properly managed, adding that this could affect traffic management in the airspace. President, Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers’ Association NATCA, Mr. Agoro, Abayomi Omotayo said the induction of the newly rated Air Traffic Controllers (ATCs) was intended to usher them into the complex, stressful and demanding environment of the traffic control systems in order to prepare them for the new responsibilities. Agoro explained that, “they will be exposed to the structure and responsibilities of the civil aviation agencies in the country and to be mentored to appreciate professional values, ethics and behaviour of the Air Traffic Control operational environment”. He charged the newly inducted ATCs to maintain highest professional conduct in the discharge of their responsibilities as the shepherd of the skies, assuring them of his executive’s support always and to partner with them in activities geared towards improving the general wellbeing of the profession. Explaining the various steps undertaken by the new ATCs, the public relations officer of NATCA, James Alexander Otanjah said the recent induction of the newly rated /licensed controllers in Port Harcourt was one of the requirements after undergoing many rigorous trainings beginning with Aerodrome control approach control and private pilot licence training at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology NCAT, Zaria. Otanjah said thereafter, the controller would proceed to the field for a proper rating and obtaining the requisite licence for a period of not less than four years. According to the image maker of NATCA, licences can only make a controller full-fledged ATC but does not give power for solo control at the Tower as such an ATC must complete a six month post licence supervision under a controller after which the ATC would be allowed to function. The Director Operations, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency, Mr Mathew Lawrence Pwajok, in his speech applauded the new trend of inducting newly rated/Licensed controllers by the NATCA executives. Pwajok advised the inductees to remain focus and disciplined in the practice of what they learnt through the period of their studies and promised that the management of Nigerian Airspace management Agency was ready to make available necessary tools for the standard practice of their profession while also assuring them that proper attention shall be given to them. Abba stated that it would be unacceptable to the association if any of the inductees was found wanting, and that NATCA would not fail to visit anyone with a sanctions who was lackadaisical in the practice of his/her duties. The Ceremony climaxed with the General Secretary of the association Mr. Agbolahor Felix administering the Oath of membership on the inductees.