Ggunmen have killed two soldiers and kidnapped an expatriate at a road construction site in Ukanafun Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The incident occurred Tuesday afternoon as the expatriate engineer working with Al Madal Construction Company was inspecting the construction of Ikot Ibritam, Inen Ekeffe and Odoro Ikot to Ukanafun road project awarded by the state government. A witness, Mr. Friday Idiok, told our correspondent that the two soldiers were killed while escorting the expatriate on routine inspection of the road project along Idim Okpok mini bridge in Inen Ekeffe, a border community between Oruk Anam and Ukanafun local government areas. Idiok said the gunmen took away the expatriate engineer immediately the two soldiers were shot dead on the spot and residents ran away for fear of arrest by security operatives. He said: “There were sporadic shootings here and before we knew what was happening, two soldiers were dead. The gunmen also escaped with the soldiers’ guns and took the expatriate to their hideout. Everybody here is panicky; we don’t know what the government would do in this matter.” Confirming the incident, the clan head of Inen, His Royal Highness, Obong Johnson Johnny Obosi, said the community was trying to bury one of their sons, the late Udoimoh, when they heard gunshots and the residents ran away. He said: “We were at burial of one of our brothers, Mr. Udoimoh, when we were about to be entertained, we heard gunshots. The next report was that two soldiers attached to expatriates working on the road construction project that links my community with Ukanafun have been killed and expatriate kidnapped.” Obosi, who could not establish the nationality of the kidnapped expatriate, said soldiers from Ibagwa Barracks arrived in their ambulance and carried the soldiers’ bodies to the mortuary. Another resident of the area, Mr. Enobong Etuk, observed that the incident was a fall out of the collapsed of government amnesty granted to militants from Ukanafun as government could not keep their own part of the bargain with the hoodlums. He said: “We wonder why this incident should happen. The project had continued smoothly in Oruk Anam axis but when it gets to Ukanafun killing and kidnapping set in. Government must look inward to fish out perpetrators of this crime.” Meanwhile, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Odiko Macdon, confirmed the incident and promised to arrest those involved in the crime. In a telephone interview, Macdon said the police got the report and made moves to arrest all the culprits. “We have received information about the unfortunate dastardly incident at the road project in Ikot Ibritam, Inen Ekeffe, leading to Ukanafun. We are working with our sister agencies to identity, arrest and prosecute those involved,” the PPRO said in a text message.