Former Nigeria’s ambassador to the Scandanavian Region, Amb. Godknows Igali has predicted that the successor to Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, will emerge through a rancor-free primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) devoid of money politics and name dropping of former President Goodluck Jonathan and the state governor.
Amb. Igali, who retired as a Federal Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power and one of the leading aspirants to succeed Governor Dickson, said despite the wrong permutations by some political analyst, the PDP will elect the its party flag bearer among the best of many aspirants that has indicated interest and win the governorship election come November 16.
Speaking in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, Ambassador Igali said the delegates of the party will elect the governorship aspirants that they know will improve on the achievements of Governor Seriake Dickson.
“Some talk about the fact that money will play a key role in the primaries. But it is not about the issue of money. At the end of the day, the party delegates will not count for the name dropping of former President Goodluck Jonathan and Governor Seriake Dickson,” he said.
Igali said the duo former President Jonathan and Governor Dickson have assured all the governorship aspirants of the party of a level playing ground during the PDP primaries in the State.
He expressed confidence over the capacity of the PDP to produce a viable candidate and win the governorship election despite the incursion of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last general elections.
“I believe the PDP will win. Bayelsa is a PDP enclave despite the incursion of the APC in the last election. Let us be fair, PDP now control about 70 per cent of the state. For PDP not to win, then there must a fundamental break. And such break will never occur,” he said.
On the rising number of gubernatorial aspirants on the platform of the PDP, Ambassador Igali described it as a welcome development, noting that “the more the merrier for our party and the state. It is a good thing.”
He added that “political ambition is something that is healthy. It is tangible if a man can serve his people. We should be able to serve our people. I am glad that there are many people getting ready to serve the people. I have looked at the list and saw that they all qualified. We all believe we have value to add and so it is good. It is only good for people to respect the rule of the game.
“All aspirants are brothers. And after everything, we will all meet in church and other places. Some of us grew up together. At the end of the day, we will know who is who. Among these aspirants, I am the only one that has such rich experience in the public service and years of exposure in the civil service. It is not only about what you have done before but your vision for the state. My own vision is to properly harness our Ijaw people and galvanize ourselves to be entrepreneurial.
“The present government in Bayelsa has done well. Governor Dickson has set a standard for governance and the next governor should do well. Governor Dickson has done well and the next governor should do better. There are three elections in the state and it shows that Dickson have done well.”
Igali, a one-time Secretary to the Bayelsa State Government (SSG), also dismissed the alleged frosty relationship between former President Jonathan and Governor Dickson over the issue of succession, insisting that it is mere rumour.
“Governor Dickson is a part of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan political family. There is no problem between Dickson and Jonathan to the best of my knowledge.
“I was SSG, Jonathan was governor and Peremobowei Ebebi was deputy governor. We ran the state for two months and we decided to appoint commissioners. And that was how Jonathan appointed Dickson and others as commissioner. There is a wrong perception on their relationship.
“Some people mistake the fact that when Governor Dickson is doing something and former President Jonathan did not attend, they interpret it to mean frosty relationship. They make noise on matter that is not important. I am in the middle and should know better.
“I know Jonathan very well .He is not a demanding type of person and he is not forcey. He is not the type that will demand that you must do this or that. You should know that Jonathan was in Abuja and appointed people he does not know into sensitive positions. Governor Dickson has a lot of respect for Jonathan, and both of them have agreed to allow a level playing ground for all governorship aspirants.”