M embers of Ijaw coastal communities comprising Egbema, Olodiama, Furupagha, Okomu and Gbaran in Ovia North-East Local Government Area of Edo State, yesterday lamented the spate of marginalisation by successive administrations in the state.   They stated this at a press conference in Ikoro community, near Benin, Ovia North-East Local Government Area of the state.   They also reiterated their respect to the Oba of Benin, as well as its culture.   Spokesperson of the communities, Chief Collins Ofunama, said the Ijaw were peace loving people, stressing also that they had been treated as outcasts by successive governments in the state.   He said the communities lacked basic infrastructure that would see them function as part of communities under the state.   Ofunama also appealed to the state government to give staff of office to the Pere of Olodiama, for the Ijaw to have a sense of belonging.   According to him, “We are not only neglected as a people, but treated as if we are not part of the state. We also want the state government to give staff of office to Pere of Olodiama, as well as bring development to these communities.”   The chief used the opportunity to denounce the purported advertorial carried on behalf of the communities by one Peres Ejune.   “It is true that he is our son, but nobody sent him to issue such a statement on behalf of the five clans of Ijaw in Edo. The people you see here in this hall never sent him, whatever he did was done based on his selfish interest and not for the concerned communities,” he stated.   Youth Chairman of Olodiama clan, Mr. Clement Owede, who also corroborated Ofunama’s position on the purported advertorial, said: “What Ejune did have no backing from any Ijaw community, clan and the Ijaw nation.”   He said: “As a responsible and responsive culturally-organised people, we respect the Oba of Benin and the Benin traditional institution, but that should not be taken to mean that our existence as Ijaw people will be compromised.   “We therefore say that the Pere of Olodiama clan and other Peres (Kings) are the traditional heads of our various kingdoms in Edo State, who are the traditional custodians of our land.   “We humbly say that as Ijaw people, the fourth largest ethnic group in Nigeria, we have no resemblance in culture, custom, beliefs, way of life and ideology with the Benin people and so the Obaship of Benin does not extend to the Ijaw people.   “That we remain law abiding and loyal to the governor and government of Edo State and Government of Nigeria at large, should not be deemed to mean we are subjects of the Oba of Benin,” he said.