For centuries, bitter-leaf has been a source of health and vitality to our ancestors, and its medicinal values are well-documented. In our chemical and fertilizer age, it is indeed difficult to find fruits and herbs in their natural state as majority of them have been polluted with fertiliser chemicals.
In that case, the emphasis should be in the promotion of organic farming, and gardening, not on spurious rumours claims that bitter-leaf is unsafe.
The following are some of the many uses of bitter leaf. Stomach-ache
Chew the tender stem of the plant like a chewing stick and swallow the bitterness.
This is a well-known remedy for stomachaches. In some cases the ache stops within a few minutes. An alternative is to pound the fresh leaves in a mortar and press out the juice. Add a pinch of salt to three tablespoons of the undiluted juice and drink. This brings immediate relief. Skin infection
For skin infections such as ring worm, itching, rashes and eczema, the pure, undiluted extract of bitter leaf is excellent. Simply apply it to the affected part daily. Diabetes
Diabetics should listen carefully to this good news. They do not need to despair or lose hope. God has not abandoned them. God has given them bitter leaf as a sign of God’s love and care. From time immemorial, herbalists have been using the bitter leaf plant for the treatment of diabetes. Bitter leaf not only reduces sugar-level drastically; it also helps to repair the pancreas. squeeze ten handfuls of the fresh leaves in ten liters of water and take two glasses thrice daily for one month, this amounts to six glasses daily.
Loss of memory
Loss of memory can be a symptom of diabetes, or a sickness on its own. Whatever its nature may be, bitter leaf is good for this ailment. Take one glass thrice daily for at least two months. Prostrate cancer
Prostrate cancer is common among men who are over forty years old. Its symptom is difficult and painful urination, among others. Bitter leaf is very good for this ailment.
It increases the flow of urine and reduces the pain, as well as regulates the spread of the cell. Simply squeeze the fresh leaves in water and take a glassful four times daily.
Don’t be surprised if you begin to urinate very frequently when you take the bitter leaf extract. It’s part of the cleansing and healing process that your body needs. General Weakness
Do you often feel weak and tired? Do you lack vitality and vigour? Then get up and take a walk into the bush. You don’t need to trek far before you find a bitter leaf plant.
Squeeze the leaves in water and take a glass thrice daily. Soon you will experience a new lease of energy.
Stroke
Bitter leaf solution calms the nerves, strengthens the muscles and cleanses the system.
I have seen what marvels bitter leaf extract has done for many people and I testify that it is good.
Pneumonia
Squeeze the fresh leaves of the plant in water. Take a glass-full thrice daily. Warm the solution on fire each time before drinking. Remember, do not boil, just warm.
Continue the medication for a month. You do not need to squeeze the leaves each time you want to drink it. You can squeeze a large quantity at once and add some honey. This will help preserve the solution. However, note that if you store bitter leaf extract for twenty-four hours or more, the bitterness will disappear or diminish. Insomnia
Bitter leaf extract has done wonders for those suffering from sleeplessness. Simply take two glasses of bitter leaf solution every night. You will experience great calm and well being. You may add a little honey if you wish. Arthritis
Arthritis or rheumatism patients who have tried bitter-leaf solution as described above attest to its effectiveness. It soothes inflamed joints and eradicates stem pain.