 N obel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, has declared that the failure of President Muhammadu Buhari to find a lasting solution to herdsmen attacks in the country has wiped away the achievements of his administration.  Soyinka, who stated this weekend while hosting 85 pupils at his Ijegba residence in Abeokuta, declared that Buhari appeared to have been overwhelmed by the problems confronting Nigeria.   “I believe very frankly that the problems of this nation are beyond the solution that can be offered by this government,” he stated.  The pupils were drawn from the six geopolitical zones of the country to mark the 85th birthday of the foremost playwright.  Responding to questions on sundry issues during an interactive session at his private amphitheatre, Soyinka insisted that the carelessness and negligence of the Buhari-led administration has resulted in the death of many Nigerians. He said the violence by suspected herdsmen is a serious security issue, stressing that the Federal Government’s failure to address it “is totally unforgivable and unpardonable.”  Soyinka said: “Look at what is happening today. How is it possible for me to say, for instance, that I am pro of this government, it has been negligent. Look at what is happening with the cattle all over the place. That is a security issue which should never have reached this level.  “I am sure that carelessness and single act which has resulted in hundreds of people being killed in massacre, in their farms and their farms taken over; it has wiped away a lot of the positive achievements of the government.  “It is an issue that is so serious and which concerns the welfare of you and me that any carelessness or any failure there is totally unforgivable and unpardonable.  “It is not that one like to criticize for the sake of criticizing, no! It is just that we believe that there is a minimal level which any government which has been elected to power must achieve to be consider a true representative of the people.”  The Nobel Laureate stressed that the nation’s problems have overwhelmed the president, adding that they cannot be solved by the current government.  He, however, urged the president to call for national dialogue among all the people across political divides so as to engage in partisan government that would benefit the general public.  He said: “If you agree, first of all, that the problems of this nation are completely beyond it, that is the first admission. And we should start thinking in terms of partisan government, it is going to form in my view, a government that cut across political parties and need to forget their allegiances and really comfort this nation as a habitation of human beings for very serious issues like economic, health, security, etc.  “The ingredients that threaten succession of government are being experienced every day. I think that is best way to go. I believe very frankly that the problems of this nation are beyond the solution that can be offered by this government.”  While commenting on governance in Nigeria, Soyinka said: “Governance is a very difficult occupation.  “Nigeria is a very complex nation for lots of reasons; its history, the background, the formation of it, the complexity, the culture, balancing here and there and then, you have several complications like fuel, among others. “Politicians that money has gone into their heads, misdirect themselves in terms of priority, they neglect some sections.  “Some of them are nepotistic and some of them alienated themselves from the public which is the people they are supposed to serve and govern and they think they are still colonial masters, especially, when we went through the military period.”  