Seyi Hunter is a Nollywood actress but it would not be out of place to say she is more popular for her activities as a sex educator through her Vlog. In this interview, she told ADEDAYO ODULAJA that masturbation is best place to start when a man and woman are seeking great sex.  You have caused a bit of a scare as a sex educator. How long now and what inspired this career? I love talking about sex. Some people aren’t comfortable with their sex life, so someone has to represent them and talk about sex. It actually has been for two years in June.  The general motion is that circumcised women cannot enjoy sex, you don’t seem to agree with that. They can, I was like that before. I am part of the few women that went through genital mutilation. I didn’t use to enjoy sex before but now I enjoy it. So they can also enjoy sex, but it is discovered through masturbation.  Are you not actually encouraging masturbation with that statement? Of course. Even for men, masturbation will keep you away from the doctor. Masturbation prevents prostate cancer for men.  How confirmed is that in terms of medicine? Before I put out any information, I make sure I confirm it. It is the same for women. For a woman to enjoy sex, a man cannot please her if he doesn’t know where to touch, even when making love. The woman should direct a man on where to touch and how to touch them. That’s why you hear women say ‘harder’ or ‘faster’ during sex because the man would not know. So it’s when you masturbate that you would come to understand your body. For example, when I place that magic wand just on a part of my vagina, I feel it more than when I place it on the clitoris. So you must work on yourself and discover which part tickles you more and which is more sensitive. That is when you can actually teach your man how to touch you.  How affordable are the sex toys you sell and who really needs them?  When it comes to selling sex toys, I can say I sell the most affordable sex toys in Nigeria. There are some sex toys I sell at N8,000 and I see other people sell the same thing for N18,000. You even see the same sex toy on Instagram at N22,000. Sex toys are extremely affordable and people make a lot of profit in it. The person selling it for N22,000 is making a 100 percent profit. It is not a case where you see a sex toy for a cheaper rate that you will feel it is fake, no. Some sex toys sell as low as one pound. I have someone in the UK who when he’s coming, buys them for me. I sometimes ask if he is sure of the price but when it comes to Nigeria the price is inflated. Sex toys are very affordable.  In terms of providing sex education, are you certified by any means? Last year, I wanted to do a second degree in sex therapy and human sexuality, but the schools I applied to, like ICSS in the U.S, said I must have a degree in psychology or sociology. So the physiologist, a doctor I spoke to has a programme where she does short courses. I wanted to be a certified sex therapist, but the doctor counseled me that because of what I do, she would advise I be a certified sex educator than being a sex therapist which is way deeper. So I did short courses in sex therapy and human sexuality.  Would you say taking a break from acting affected your career? It affected it majorly. The truth is that right now I am like a newcomer in the movie industry. I had a productive meeting last week with a management team. I have done about three full movies this year; I produced one. So I am going back fully into the movie industry. So even if I don’t appear in movie this year, I plan to appear in at least 30 movies before the end of the year. These are movies I would feature in, not produce.  What is your average pay to appear in a movie?  Depends on the movie, the least I have collected is a N120,000.  People know you as a sex educator, do you ever get roles that are sexual in nature?  Since I started my sex Vlog and I became a player in the adult industry, I have not really been in the movie industry. The few movies I have appeared in, I have not got such. Maybe now that I am back they may bring such roles to me. But I have a limit when you say sexual in nature. I can kiss, but the guy has to be cute. I have some actors I specially want to feature in my own movie. There would be a story line that would make us kiss well. When you watch the movie, you will remember that this is what I talked about.  When you watch foreign films, you see some foreign actors and actresses like Antonio Banderas, Angelina Jolie in really sexual scenes. Can we expect that from you? No, they won’t be able to afford me in Nigeria for that.  So what is the weirdest thing a fan has done to you in public? All the male fans that see me want to have sex with me. They all want to use me to experiment what I teach so that is why it has been difficult going into a relationship because I don’t know who likes me for me. So when I meet a man and he knows about my sex vlog, that is the end. My men are private people. I am selective in picking my men, they are very exclusive.  What are your criteria for picking in a man? People that are very private, my sex life is private. Any man that watches my video would know how to please me because it is all out there in the open but when it comes to my private life I leave it the way it is, private.  What is the first movie you have ever produced? Indecent Assault.  You do all you love, where is the money coming from to take care of yourself. Is it through what you do? Yes, what I do is entertainment. I am into movies, money comes from there; I am into the sex Vlog, money is also coming out from there and don’t forget I sell sex toys and lingerie. Money comes from there too.  What is the fashion item you know you can’t do without? That would be my earrings.  How expensive are they? I shop for my items in bulk. I don’t buy them piece by piece.  What is the most expensive item you have ever bought for yourself? Lingerie.  Do you make money from lingerie? Yes, I do. I sell them. I have a page on Instagram called Seduction; I have an office in Surulere where people come to buy them.  How expensive are they? I have as low as N1,500 and above. I make gains in my sales but not to the extent of cheating people to the extreme. 