…protesters ask Adeboye to speak out on Leah, others  Members of the Creative Group Industry yesterday staged a peaceful protest to the Redemption Camp, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, demanding to know why the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Enoch Adeboye, has not spoken out on some national issues.
The protesters included maverick Nigerian entertainer and activist, Charles Oputa, popularly called Charly Boy, Michael Parish, Idris Abdulkareem, Baba Fryo and a couple of other upcoming artists.
The protesters, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), marched through the camp, carrying placards with inscriptions such as: “Adeboye, speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves,” “Adeboye, would you have kept quiet if Leah was your biological daughter,” among others.
The Chairman and Convener of the group, Mr. Felix Duke, said the protest was to demand that Adeboye should intervene in addressing the insecurity issues bedevilling the nation.
Duke said the group had expected that spiritual leaders should have reacted to the incessant killings and kidnappings affecting the North-East and other parts of the country.
He said: “We are tired of the killings in Nigeria, the violence is too much. We want Pastor Adeboye, as a highly respected spiritual father globally, to lend his voice to the matter so that something can be done. Pastor Adeboye has his ‘son’ as the Vice-President and he is well respected by President Muhammadu Buhari, so he needs to speak out, so that the Presidency can take the matter seriously and address it as such.”
Duke explained that the group, which is formed to be independent, chose Adeboye, among others, because the RCCG had the largest Christian followership in Nigeria and Africa.
According to him, many Christians and non-Christians hold Adeboye in high esteem and look up to him.
On his part, Charly Boy expressed disappointment that notable Nigerians, especially respected spiritual fathers, were silent about the onslaught and killings within the country.
Oputa, an advisory board member of the group, expressed optimism that a word from Pastor Adeboye to President Buhari would send a notable signal and help in restoring peace and order in the nation.
He said: “With the number of followership Pastor Adeboye has, it will be totally wrong for him to be silent on the killings in the society. He needs to send a word to the Presidency, I am sure his word will go a long way to propel a change.”
Reacting to protest, the National Overseer, RCCG, Pastor Joshua Obayemi, lauded the initiative of the group to speak for the voiceless.
He commended their struggle for the masses and promised to deliver the protesters’ message to Adeboye.