Background Initeme  has worked in the hospitality and tourism  market for over decade, with a stint at the Hilton Nigeria before setting up a consultancy firm,  Hospitality Groundworks, a company which specialises in the foundation building of industry business; advisory services; human resources; facilities management and hospitality project management. She has worked as acting CEO to launch Yourstay, an indigenous online booking platform which serves the European and Sub – Sahara market while her scope runs deeper as she works with new and existing hotels to develop their products through operating service development or through working as a launch consultant to get a new product up and running. What is your perspective on Nigeria tourism sector? I would say that we are in our prime, we have started to appreciate the value of what we have. We are exploring more and with the new technological advancements, we are sharing more and showing the world what Nigeria has to offer. It is a beautiful time and I know it can only go upward from here. Why should the Nigerian government bother about the tourism sector? The real question is why should they not bother with tourism? You find that tourism is one of the major driving forces of major countries’ economy. It has been shown to drive economies, boost employment, create community and be a major cause for communal development. I think it should be how soon could we start paying attention? Can they execute a good plan for the sector in this new dispensation? Of course! Let’s start with the most prominent and obvious ones in the lively cities such as Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja, Abeokuta and then we move on to develop the less known and more tasking ones. But in specific terms what are some of the areas of focus? First, the new government should look seriously at enforcing stronger legislation for the preservation and maintenance of our heritage sites. I believe that if we don’t start now to preserve what we have our children and grandchildren will become as lost as our counterparts in the Diaspora. Essentially, you find that we are already losing a big part of our culture to urbanization. How can Nigeria take advantage of the digital space for its tourism? Availability of information should be the first port of call. I think the government has to do better at providing information to the local tourists and most especially to the international tourist markets. It’s difficult to navigate the tourist scene without a clue of what you are getting yourself into. Furthermore, I would say that changing the narrative through positive marketing of our country’s brand is quite important to the development of the perspective from the foreign community as well as the indigenous people and residents of Nigeria. Should the government engage consultants in this regard? Defiantly, I’ve always be a very strong believer in work smarter and not harder. It is important that the government invests in a specialist to compile information that would benefit the academic community and tourists alike. We will also benefit from the exponential knowledge which comes from being in the industry for a number of years as well as the network or contacts they could tap into to execute a flawless delivery. How can the Nigerian populace benefit from investment in tourism? Tourism is the gift that keeps giving. A booming tourism industry gives rise to job creation, revenue for businesses, infrastructural development, cultural exportation to name a few. These are just for the community, tourism can stimulate the country’s economy to a point of being the sole source of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as seen in countries like Greece, and Barbados. How can Nigeria take advantage of religious tourism as we have suffuse of religious festivals and events across the country? I believe that awareness and accessibility are the two factors that can create a big impact for religious tourism. We find people from America, Cuba and a number of diverse nationalities coming to Nigeria for the celebration of the Yoruba religious festivals. Clothed in seas of white attires they flock to the sacred sites to worship with their fellow believers. The government can make their journey easier and more accessible. This promotes jobs, infrastructural revitalisation and preservation of heritage sites among others. How can Nigeria government get some of the natural wonders in the country enlisted by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) World Heritage List? ‘A wonder’ is not something that can be ‘made’ as you have to work extensively with what you have, develop it, build it, publicise it and people will glorify it and its attributes. Nigeria is blessed with a number of natural wonders and landscapes, so this should not be too hard to derive.