Residents of the Federal Capital Territory  (FCT) have  expressed  anger over the pains and losses arising from the continued street protest by members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria. CALEB ONWE reports  The frequent protests by members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) also known as Shi’ites, have become a source of concern to residents of the Federal Capital Territory. A number of residents, who spoke with Inside Abuja, said the situation was fast becoming a real threat to lives and property. The protests, they said, have  gradually assumed the shape of  terrorism and Abuja  appeared to have returned to the past  when  Boko Haram terrorists were frequently bombing both government buildings and private business premises,  creating palpable fears and tension in the city. Some residents have  blamed the current tensed situation on government’s apparent refusal  to yield  to  the demands of the sect to release  their spiritual leader, Sheikh Ibraheem El’zakzaky whom the courts had granted bail. A cameraman with one of the broadcast  organizations in Abuja, who narrowly escaped being lynched during the last violent clash between the Shi’ttes and the police, said the government was becoming too insensitive to the plight of  the citizens. The cameraman, who pleaded anonymity,  said he escaped from the angry protesters who had encircled him during the protests  and threatened  to kill him. According to him,   he could have been lynched but for his ability to communicate with the mob  in  Hausa  language and pleading with them  during the encounter. He expressed joy that he did not become the story instead of staying alive to tell the story. “Government should listen to the Shittes and release their leaders in order to stop this needless bloodshed.  I would have been killed by these protesters who had already seized my camera and were threatening to stone me to death. I begged them in their language, pleading that I am a Moslem and a journalist with a private station and not a government media. “They were not convinced until they had seen my identification card. They left me to go, but didn’t give me the memory card of my camera which they had forcefully collected from me. They accused me of filming their actions,” he said. Another resident, Jeremiah Idris, said that coming into Abuja from the surbubs have become a hellish experience almost on  daily basis, due to the protests. Idris stated that those who live in Nyanya and Mararaba were the worst hit, as soldiers who mount survellance at various check points along the highway would always create artificial traffic gridlock that would keep commuters for hours on a journey that is not supposed to be more than 15 minutes. He expressed anger that innocent commuters were always at the receiving end of these road blocks which the  authorities said were for the purpose of preventing members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria from moving into the city centre for their protests. According to him, on Monday last week, he spent three hours, coming from Mararaba to the Federal Secretariat, where he works in one of the government agencies. He urged security agencies to change their method of operations, as the road blocks have never prevented the Shittes from moving into the city centre in droves for their protest. “If the government cannot yield to the cry of these people and release their leaders, the security operatives should stop blocking the roads and  subjecting innocent citizens to untold hardship almost everyday. “Why are they still blocking the roads? Members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria have always beaten all these  security measures to come to the city centre for their protests,” he said. Inside Abuja‘s investigation revealed that apart from subjecting commuters to hardship,  residents of the nation’s capital were becoming more worried with the fact that moving around town had become a dangerous expedition. Mrs. Janet Okagbue said that it so no longer safe to drive around town, as it is uncertain which street the Shiittes protest would take place on any particular day. Okagbue stated that since the clash between the protesters and security agencies have deteriorated to the level of damaging vehicles and burning down public utilities, sometimes resulting to death,  it is not advisable to drive around town if you have no compelling reason to do so. According to her, the situation was becoming very precarious because the Shittes appear to be ready to die for their course, and cannot be predicted. Inside Abuja gathered that while the Shittes  have refused to stop the street march despite the  loss  of their members,   other members of the public were becoming very worried that innocent people who ordinarily should not have been affected by the crisis were becoming victims. During the last violent clash between the Shittes and security operatives in the Central Business  District of Abuja,  a number of people lost their lives. Spokesman of the Shitte  group, Abdullahi Musa, said that about 20 of their members were killed during the crackdown by the Police. Perhaps, most painful aspect of the loss , was the death of a  Channels Television’s reporter, Precious Owolabi, who was at the scene of the protest with a view to report it. Owolabi, who was a serving  member  of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) was probably,  hit by a stray bullet. The clash also claimed the life of a Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, in FCT Police command,  DCP Usman   Umar. Apart from the loss of lives,  residents are also worried about the number of public  property  that  has  been destroyed due to the violent clashes. In recent times, smashing and burning of vehicles on the roads, especially those  that have government’s identification marks have become the characteristics of the protest, especially any time the police try to forcefully disperse the protesters. During the last clash, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), lost its two  Quick Response Ambulances parked at the  Emergency Response Station located near the  Federal Secretariat Complex. Head of Media and Public Relations of NEMA, Malam Sani Datti, who confirmed this, expressed sadness that the protesters could embark on such willful damage to public property. “This is to confirm that ERABs of the NEMA located on Ahmadu Bello Way beside the Federal Secretariat was attacked today with two vehicles burnt down. “The attack was carried out by members of Islamic Movement of Nigeria commonly known as Shi’ites.” he said. Datti explained that the affected vehicles were the Mobile Intensive Care Unit, which was a life support ambulance, and a multi-purpose Response Intervention Van. According to him, the ERABs were situated at the location for timely response to emergencies and disasters to reduce loss of lives and property.