The National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD), has initiated a multi billion naira project, aimed at improving the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of all states in the country. Director General NIPRD, Dr. Obi Adigwe who made the disclosure during a meeting with the Association of Nigeria Health Journalists (ANHEJ) in Abuja, said the project which has since commenced in ten states including Kaduna, Anambra and Katsina States, was designed to tap into every natural product which has a pharmaceutical value in each state. The DG further explained that the Institute has started translating research findings into products while mapping out places and products in each part of the country that was health and socioeconomic benefits that could boost the nation’s economy. “Eucalyptus is a multimillion dollar industry. We have started engaging Katsina state for  Azadirachta indica. The  Katsina state project is fashioned against the Indian model. “India makes one billion US dollars every year from Neem. In Nigeria, we used our own Neem for shade. The Katsina state project is geared at changing that. “Anambra state project is looking at Vernonia amygdalina (bitter leaf). Edo state project is Senna alata. We have just started talking to the Cross River State government and in the next few days we are going there. “The country is very rich in terms of natural resources. There is no where you go to in Nigeria where you don’t have product that have very rich ethno pharmaceutical potentials. “What we have done is that we have mapped out areas where the climate, the topography and other unique conditions within that area encourage a particular product. “But that product has to have healthcare benefit, economic benefit, capacity building benefit to the people and potential to create IGR for the states and if properly harnessed and processed, the people in the area will also have their capacity built while that product is being processed. That is what has guided us in developing our contextual  processing protocol,” he said. President of the Association of the Nigeria Health Journalists (ANHEJ), Mr. Hassan Zaggi,maintained that with the needed support from the government, NIPRD has the potential to turn around the economy of the country. Concerned over the challenges bedevilling the nation’s health sector, he said “We are interested in making sure that agencies in the health sector play their roles appropriately for the growth of the sector and the good of all Nigerians.”