 The Osolo of Isolo, Oba Kabiru Adelaja on Saturday urged the Lagos State Government (LASG) to help in repairing the deplorable roads in the community for improved trade and commerce there. Adelaja made the appeal at the 15th anniversary  of his installation as the traditional ruler of Isolo in Lagos State. The event was  held at the Lagos State Polytechnic, Isolo. Adelaja said that Isolo community was the most industrialised hub of Lagos State and has continued to contribute  immensely to the state’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “We thank the Lagos State Government for their support in the development of Isolo community but I am appealing to them to give us good roads to aid commerce and industry. “We have a lot of industries operating within the community that count on good roads to aid their operations. “Our roads are plagued with potholes and these potholes are getting worse especially in the rainy season. Better roads will improve production in the community,” he said. And in a related development, residents of Igbe community in Ikorodu, Lagos State, on Saturday appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to repair the Igbe Road, which links three Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in the state. Mr Adekunle Oduborisa, the Chairman of Igbe Landlords Association, made the appeal in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at Igbe, in Ikorodu. The six communities that make up Igbe are, Onolu, Igbehin Adun, Otitoloju, Ife-Oluwa and Itedo Oluwa in Igbogbo-Baiyeku LCDA, Ikorodu. Oduborisa said that the deplorable road had caused a lot of accidents  and become almost impassable for motorists. He said the condition of the road had adversely affected socio-economic activities in the town, discouraging people from doing business there. The chairman said that many students could not get to their schools early due to the bad road. “After much deliberation, we wrote letters to both the local and state governments for assistance, but all to no avail. “Some residents have abandoned their properties due to the deplorable condition of the road. “We, the residents of the community are appealing to the state government under the able leadership of Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu to come to our aid by fixing the road,” Oduborisa said. Mr Adeniyi Joshua, Chairman, Igbe Road Rehabilitation Committee, said that six communities had been jointly funding the minor repairs on the road as a palliative measure. “Due to the condition of the road, all the six communities have put heads together to evacuate drains and gutters, and to fill the pot holes, but yet we still need government to intervene because we cannot do it alone,” he said. Mrs Funmilayo Kazeem, Secretary, Igbe Community Development Association (CDA), said the  condition of the road had taken its toll on transportation costs and prices of foodstuff, as residents had to pay more. Mr Abdulquadri Abdulbakri, a member of Association of Okada Riders, Igbe Branch, said the bad road had raised maintenance costs of motorcycles and many riders now avoid the area. He, however, commended residents on the palliative measures embarked upon on the road.