 At least three people lost their lives when a passenger boat capsized at Ipakan Jetty, Egbin, Ikorodu area of Lagos.
Several other people were still missing.  Although exact number of passengers in the boat could not be ascertained, sources said about 21 passengers were in the boat before it capsized. The incident occurred at a time government was encouraging commuters to embrace water transportation as fastest means of transportation, especially in the face of increasing gridlock in the metropolis. The boat was said to going from Egbin in Ikorodu en route to Badore in Ajah. The time of the incident could not be ascertained just as the exact cause of the accident could not be confirmed.
The boat allegedly capsized owing to overloading and other unknown causes.
Another account said that the boat was overturned by the heavy current. It was, however, learnt that three of the passengers were rescued and also taken to the hospital.
The dead victims included an adult female, identified as Aniyikaye Oluwaseunfunmi, and two other passengers whose identities could not be ascertained at press time. Their bodies were recovered and bagged by the agency’s response team. The Chief Executive Officer of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, described the boat accident as pathetic. Osanyintolu said officials of LASEMA, Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) and the Marine Police had a hectic time in the search and rescue efforts. He said: “A boat mishap occurred at the above location yesterday 29th of June, 2019. Investigations conducted revealed that the boat was en route to Badore, Ajah, to Egbin, Ikorodu with between 17 and 21 passengers on board.”
The LASEMA boss said that the boat capsized due to overloading, adding that his agency had been making frantic efforts to manage the situation.
He added: “The boat allegedly capsized due to overloading. It was gathered that the boat was overturned by the heavy current.” Three persons were rescued and were taken to hospital.” Osanyintolu confirmed that only three bodies were recovered from the water while efforts were still ongoing to recover the remaining victims.
He said: “Unfortunately, the body of an adult female, identified as Aniyikaye Oluwaseunfunmi, 40 years old, and unnamed person were found and bagged by the agency’s response team. Rescue and recovery efforts continue for the other missing passengers by LASEMA, LASWA officials and the Marine Police.”