AbujaA bout seven months after the special investigative panel constituted by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Gabriel Olonisakin, to unravel the circumstances surrounding the killing of his immediate predecessor, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, yesterday, said that the dastardly act was carried out by armed robbers. The investigative panel, while ruling out any political undertone, said a total of 15 suspects were arrested in connection with murder of Badeh. The suspects were presented to journalists in Abuja by members of the panel, comprising the Nigerian Military, the Nigeria Police, Department of State Services (DSS), and the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA). The development came about seven months after Badeh was shot dead, while returning from his farm, located on the Abuja-Keffi Expressway, on December 18, 2018. Presenting the suspects, five of whom are still at large, head of the panel, Major General Bamidele Shafa, said the committee’s investigation revealed that the suspects were armed robbers, who attacked the late Badeh, with the aim of dispossessing him of cash and other valuables. Shafa said: “After a thorough and exhaustive investigation, the panel made the following findings. That the attack and killing of Badeh,on the 18 December, 2018, was criminal and does not have any political undertone. At least 20 persons were involved in the crime, out of which 15 have been arrested. It is expected that the remaining suspects will be arrested in due course. The 15 suspects in custody have confessed to their direct involvement in the crime. The suspects employed automatic weapons and locally made guns in the attack, killing Badeh. This was buttressed by the result of the autopsy examination and weapons recov-ered from the residences of the suspects.” According to Aliyu Usman (35), aka Ciroma, who also happened to be the gang leader, it was after killing Badeh that he knew the deceased was a retired senior military officer. Usman, who was arrested in Kowo Panda Development Area of Nasarawa State, confessed to have been contracted by Alhaji Maube Gaini, living in Kare village to take part in the operation. Usman led the attack by recruiting six other gang members. They attacked and robbed a wealthy man, who owns a farm within Panda area. The wealthy man later turned out to be Baden. Singing like bird yesterday, Usman said: “I was the one who gave the job to the gang. I was a taxi driver. One day, I drove into Panda village, in Nasarawa State. Alhaji Maube Gani told me that there was a wealthy man, who owns a farm in that area. He said that we could make money from him. I told him that I had never attacked any person in my life. He said that I should not worry. “Then later on, Alhaji called me that the man had come to his farm. He said that we should attack him. I called the other members together and we met Alhaji in the Gitata area. At that time of the operation, none of us knew that the man was a military officer. There were seven of us who participated in the operation. We just entered the road, shot him and took away his friend.” Shafa said: “He invited other gang members for the attack and supplied five AK 47 rifles and a single barrel gun. He also admitted that he carted away a black bag containing unspecified amount of money from the deceased’s vehicle, which he handed over to Abdullahi Ibrahim, aka Baba, who also admitted to receiving the bag.” Shafa further noted that after the death of Badeh, the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Nigeria Police and the Department of State Service (DSS) sprang into action independently, to uncover and arrest the perpetrators of this heinous act. He explained that in order to ensure a thorough and well-coordinated investigation, Olonisakin, constituted a joint investigation panel. He explained that: “The panel comprised of 27 members, including an attorney, drawn from the Defence Headquarters, Army Headquarters, Naval Headquarters, the Nigerian Air Force, Defence Intelligence Agency, Nigeria Police and the DSS.” He disclosed that in the course of the investigations, the panel was assisted by 21 investigators and operatives drawn from other services. Shafa said: “In carrying out its tasks, the panel was guided by the following terms of reference; to ascertain the circumstances leading to the attack and death of Badeh, identify and arrest the persons involved in the attack and killing of Badeh. They were also expected to recover properties connected to the case, make appropriate findings and recommendations. Guided by the terms of reference, the panel proceeded with the investigation activities and subsequently accepted into custody, 20 suspects earlier arrested by the services and agencies. The panel also accepted into custody, all items and properties recovered in relation to the case. “It obtained cautionary statements from the 20 suspects and cross examined them accordingly, and categorised the suspects into key suspects, circumstantial suspects and accomplices. All suspects not directly linked to the case have since been released on the instruction of the convening authority.” Shafa disclosed that the panel interviewed a total of 36 witnesses, visited the scene of crime, searched suspects’ homes, where one AK47 assault rifle, a Dane gun and other dangerous items, were recovered. The panel conducted ballistic examination of associated fire arms, verified associated bank accounts and conducted autopsy examination on the deceased.