 Scientists have raised the alarm over dangerous toxins found in bottles that are used to package alcohol. According to the findings of a new study conducted at the University of Plymouth in the United Kingdom (UK), the toxins found in alcohol bottles may be detrimental to human health. The research is published in the scientific journal ‘Environmental Science and Technology’. In the actual glass, researchers found low, but not particularly harmful levels of cadmium, lead, and chromium. However, the enamel revealed much more dangerous levels of cadmium and lead. Giving the breakdown, the researchers said cadmium concentrations of up to 20,000 parts per million (ppm) were discovered in the bottle decorations for a wide range of wine, beer, and spirits, and up to 80,000 ppm in various wine bottle decorations. Meanwhile, the established safe concentration for these elements is 90 ppm. Study leader Dr. Andrew Turner explained, “It has always been a surprise to see such high levels of toxic elements in the products we use on a daily basis. “This is just another example of that, and further evidence of harmful elements being unnecessarily used where there are alternatives available.” Furthermore, researchers found that these toxic elements could potentially move from the enamel or glass onto other glass pieces. According to says Turner, “The added there was potential for these substances to leach into other items during the waste and recycling process, which was an obvious and additional cause for concern.” Dr. Turner and his team analysed alcohol bottles purchased from stores between September 2017 and August 2018 using x-ray fluorescence (XRF) spectrometry.  The bottles’ colours were either green, clear, frosted, brown, or ultraviolet-absorbing green. As is the case with alcohol bottles, many of the analysed bottles featured images, patterns, or logos enameled over part of the exterior.  The enamels of 12 out of the 24 enameled products tested were entirely or partially made out of cadmium, lead, or both. Although, governments across the world have clear legislation in place to restrict the use of harmful substances on everyday consumer products. But when suppliers were contacted, many of them said the bottles they use were imported or manufactured in a different country than that producing the beverage. “This poses obvious challenges for the glass industry and for glass recycling and was perhaps something that needed to be factored in to future legislation covering this area,” added Dr. Turner.