More innocent souls may still be trapped, maimed and lost in building collapse as long as compromise, love for lucre and corruption remains the practice in the Nigerian built sector.  MURITALA AYINLA reports that avoidable tragedies of building collapse could be checked if only the laws are rigorously and strictly implemented  He stood out among the survivors and dead victims’ relatives invited by the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) for financial assistance. For nearly an hour that the programme lasted, he did not exchange words with anybody. He remained confined on the wheelchair, too engrossed to show interest in the happenings in the hall, obviously in thoughts of the fate that befell him.  As more survivals walked out to receive cheques from the Lagos State Government, as financial assistance following their losses in the building collapse, tears rolled down his cheeks. His wife, Shakeerah Hassan, wiped his face, even as he managed to hold back tears but emotion failed him. Filled with emotion, the couple finally broke into tears. That was Jamiu Hassan, one of the lucky survivors of the 63 Massey Street, Ita-Faji, Lagos Island building collapse which claimed 20 lives including 16 pupils of Ohen Nursery and Primary School. He was taking a nap on the last floor of the building when it caved in. For almost seven hours he was buried in the debris of the building. While under the rubble, Jamiu shouted for help but nobody could hear him, he heard so many pupils screaming for help but motionless as the beam of the fallen structured had already pinned him. Emergency responders and other volunteers unknowingly walked on the rubble under which he was buried for many hours but nobody could hear him screaming. But by the time he was excavated, he had sustained severe spinal cord and rib injuries which have confined him to a wheelchair. The tears of the 36-year-old driver were not only provoked by the inadequacy of the money given to him to secure a new accommodation, but he was also obviously overwhelmed by the degree of his misfortune; how the tragic incident has rendered him incapacitated and confined him to a wheelchair. Amidst tears, he said: “My issues are more complicated, I can no longer walk on my feet like others. If others eventually get over the loss, will I also? Between 9.30a.m. and 4.30p.m. I was trapped under the rubble I heard the pupils screaming also under the carcass of the building but was helpless because I had been trapped under the building’s beam. I do not know how to cope with life again when I can’t stand on my feet to work and take care of my family.” Yetunde Ogunsanwo was too traumatised to recognise or greet anyone around her. The sight of her little boy, Joshua Ogunsanwo lying critically on the Lagos Island General Hospital bed worried her. Seeing the boy’s legs in Plaster of Paris (POP) was a burden too heavy to bear. For almost nine hours the distraught mother couldn’t sit. Hence, she burst into tears intermittently as she ran from one pharmacy to the other in search of the prescribed drugs and other needs as demanded by the doctors and other health care givers at the hospital. Like many mothers, the 27-year-old woman had no premonition of the fate that befell them on Wednesday March 13, 2019.  On the day, the trader had woken as early as 4.30a.m. to prepare for the day’s work and prepare her kid and husband’s meal.  When it was 7a.m. she was already at Ohen Nursery and Primary School located on the ill-fated building. She left her little boy with school guards with a promise to return early to pick him only to find him in a critical condition at the hospital. As shocking as her story seemed she was one of the few lucky mothers who met their children alive, though with degrees of injury. Many parents were not so fortunate. They bid their wards goodbye in the morning and they never set their eyes on their little angels anymore. They had dropped them in the three-storey building school, hoping to come and pick them in the afternoon but on returning to the school, what they saw was the a sea of sympathisers and onlookers who had gathered around the school building already reduced to rubble. Their beloved kids were buried alive by the debris of the collapsed building. It was a heart-breaking experience too difficult for many to bear. In the tragic incident, entire children of some families were involved. A woman was said to have committed suicide when she could not withstand the agony of losing two of her three kids to the tragedy. For hours, innocent children cried for help under the wreckage of the collapsed structure but nobody outside could hear them. Sympathisers and onlookers were helpless, the fallen slabs and other wreckage had covered them. They cried and wailed until they succumbed to death while the few lucky ones were rescued by sympathisers and emergency responders. As touching as Ita-Faji school/residential building collapse was, life remains permanently altered for Okeoseye Odia, a policeman, who lost four children to flood-induced mudslide at Magodo area of Lagos metropolis.  Odia’s children, Sylva (23), Sayo (15), Clinton (13) and Endurance (eight), were all consumed when flood broke through the family house located at 50, Otun Araromi Street, Orisha, Magodo Phase 1 in the early hours of Saturday, November 7, 2015. Despite being assisted with N5 million by the state government to secure accommodation, he remained obviously overwhelmed by the degree of his loss in the unfortunate incident. He is currently battling with the miserable circumstances to which the regrettable occurrence had subjected him. The experiences above are only samples of monumental pains and havoc wrecked on many Nigerians, whose relatives had been victims of collapsed buildings. Such occurrences, which have today become a somewhat recurring decimal, are inflicting pains and agonies on many families. It is, indeed, a sad phenomenon that seems to have snowballed into a regular happenstance in Lagos, the emerging “Mega City”. Building collapse is one tragic incident that has brought so much pains and discomfort to the victims. It often occurs when least expected, though, sometimes envisaged, frightening and making everyone even the most organised person or organisation confused. It often takes place and when it does, it comes with stories of agony and lamentations. Fraying nerves are usually difficult to calm so also are the bereaved hard to console. Those cherished are suddenly lost or completely and permanently maimed. It is a disaster that pokes its destructive fingers on helpless persons. Like a thief in the night, it intrudes rudely into the victim’s world, venting its cruel spleen with abandon. One hardly survives it and those who managed to, hardly overcome the lasing trauma. Whenever there is a bang, innocent victims are buried alive in the rubble, leaving the victims to writhe in pains for hours, sometimes days. Others simply succumb to death before the often delayed rescue mostly as a result of poor access to the site. Its victims over the years included but not limited to innocent occupants, pupils, residents, hawkers, bystanders, passers-by, labourers or porters who unfortunately choose to school, rest or live in the ill-fated building after a hectic day’s job. In many instances, an entire family is wiped out. Sometimes the kids will be spared to live thereafter as orphans. Many women had also become widows by this avoidable conundrum. In Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial nerve centre, the collapsed building tragedy spares no region or district, since no part of the state appears to be free of these ugly incidents that have claimed hundreds of lives. From the densely populated and choked-buildings area on Lagos Island and Ebute-Metta to the sparsely populated Ojodu Berger axis, no one seems to know when and where the next tragedy will strike.  The slum of Ajegunle and Ijora Badia as well as the highbrow areas in Lekki/Ajah axis come grave lamentations. The well-planned areas in Dolphin and Jakande Estate to the poorly-planned residences in Ketu, the air of frustration had always been palpable. Government buildings are not exempted either. In the past, buildings owned, financed and, sometimes, handled by government officials have had their fair share of the challenge. On November 5, 2013, a shopping complex owned by Iru/Victoria Island Local Council Development Area of Lagos State collapsed on Muri Okunola Street, killing four people and with several others injured. Also, seven people were trapped and injured including the site engineer when a building belonging to the Office of the Drainage, an arm of the state Ministry of Environment, caved in on December 15, 2011 on the premises of the Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja. Statistics in Lagos According to the 2018 emergency report of the Lagos Fire Service, a total of 11 building collapsed in the state in the year while 23 people died in the incidents. The record of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) also shows that in 2107, 29 lives were lost in the 20 buildings collapse incidents recorded in the state. Thirty-four lives perished in Lekki Garden City building collapse in 2016.  Between January and June 2019, the state has recorded seven building collapse cases with the loss of over 24 lives including that of the pupils of Ohen Nursery and Primary school at Ita-Faji. But successive administrations in the state have not watched the situation in helpless frustration. In the past, committees have been inaugurated and other measures taken, yet the structures would not just stop crumbling. And the death toll from the ugly incidents keeps rising while many have, overtime, sustained permanent disability. The tragic incidents seemed to be more peculiar in Lagos. To buttress the frequency of the ugly occurrences of building collapse in the “Centre of Excellence,” a Tribunal on Collapse Building set up by the former Governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Fashola, on November 18, 2013 also said that over 130 cases of collapsed buildings were recorded in the state between 2007 and 2013 alone. In its report, the tribunal said: “over 130 cases of collapsed buildings were recorded in the state between 2007 and 2013 alone. While in 2014 no fewer than six cases were recorded by the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA). In the incidents, 128 lives were lost with the highest casualty figure of 116 persons coming from the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) Guest House incident that shook the world on September 12, 2014.” Going by the report of the tribunal summited to Fashola, an average of 18 houses collapsed per year, leaving hundreds of people bruised or buried alive. According to the Chairman of the tribunal, Mr. Abimbola Ajayi (an architect), five buildings caved in when the panel was still sitting. So prevalent are the incidents in the state that between January and December 2015, 16 buildings collapsed. Causes of frequent incidents The causes of frequent building collapse are as numerous as structurally distressed buildings. A former Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Olutoyin Ayinde, a town planner, said “buildings won’t stop crumbling in Lagos until contractors stop the hasty development and embrace a scientific approach where all the appropriate and lawful steps in building will be followed without compromise”. According to the former commissioner, most Nigerians including the contractors build by instalment and as a result, jump due process when it comes to building. He also said that Nigeria, particularly Lagos, continues to witness the unfortunate incident due to failure of builders who, according to him, are simply compromising the standard for selfish reasons or are incompetent. He explained that building construction is scientific, which requires due process by experts. Ayinde, who is also the 2nd National Vice President of the Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, added that most builders hardly get approval before erecting their structures. According to him, if at all they get permission for the construction of the building, they attempt to cut corner and flout such building approval. He said: “Building project requires serious planning. The ideal thing is that you must have the resources to fund the building from acquisition of the land to the roof and virtually everything you need to do on the land. But the reverse is the case in Nigeria. People build by piece meal and without proper plan on how to fund the construction and as a result, compromise set in on the part of the project handler and property owners. “There are other cases of collapsed building resulting from violation of building approved plans. For instance, there are instances in which two floors were approved and the consultant went ahead to build four-storey. There are also cases of professionals that are either inexperienced or compromising.” Investigations have also revealed that most buildings that circumvented official supervision are usually built at night and other odd hours in order to get their structures built without being checked by the building regulatory and enforcement agents. This may be why the Lagos State government, at a point in time, prohibited building construction at night, on Sundays and other public holidays to prevent construction of structures when the regulatory officials would not be at work. The directive, however, could not make any difference due to poor enforcement of the prohibition order. Explaining the impacts of substandard blocks to building collapse incidents, the Chairman of Y. K. Block Industry, Alhaji Mustapha Yekini, identified the failing quality of cement and other building materials as one of the major causes of collapsed building cases. He said that most block makers are yet to adapt to the changing quality of cement mixture while building. According to him, most block makers in Lagos use a bag of cement with a mixture of sand to mould 40 to 45 of nine inches blocks while the standard and in fact, the practice in other part of the country is maximum of 27 blocks for a bag of cement. He said: “No matter how you look at it, substandard block can contribute to the collapse building. The concrete beams in building rest on blocks. Some block makers could use a bag of cement to make even more than 45 blocks of nine inches and it is usually 70 or more blocks if it is six inches.” A chieftain of Association of Real Estate Developers of Lagos State, Olumegbon Mutairu, was quick to blame the menace on the sharp practices of the builders. He said: “It is true that some of the major factors militating against reduction in the incidence of collapsed building are greed on the part of some developers and the use of substandard or inadequate materials. You can’t expect the strength of the building with a bag of cement for 20 blocks to be the same with the one with 50 blocks per bag of cement.