“The obsolete concept that women exist merely as the playthings of men has a long and depressing history, nowhere more than in denying women the various freedoms that men jealously guard for themselves. We can get a sense of why misogyny exists if we know what it is and have a workable description of it,” says Juliet Ezenwa Maja-Pearce, one of the topmost contemporary female artist in Nigeria.  Known for her passionate about gender and children’s rights, her forth-coming solo art exhibition, titled Misogyny, interrogates this issue of prejudice against the women, indeed, the female child.   “Misogyny came into use in 2012. In gender social relations, it is more a multi-layered system of social control than the state of mind of a person. It is behaviour which manifests as acts of social control and dominance where the victims are female and the perpetrators are male. It usually manifests when a woman disagrees with a dominant man, even in casual conversations. Dominance and control are its twin aims. Social control and non-physical coercion are the common tools of choice.   “Misogyny functions to guarantee the patriarchal social order. It does not require consent or assent; it does not take into consideration people’s assumptions, beliefs, values or theories. Misogyny is a life-style choice, a way of doing things. Misogyny is the violence that kicks in when patriarchal social relations are disrupted,” she said.   She noted that in a patriarchy the woman is never her own person. “She always belongs to someone else, e.g. ‘the mother of…’, ‘the daughter of…’, ‘the wife of…’ etc, especially when it relates to a male figure. Sexism upholds misogyny in society. In patriarchy, there is an imbalance in the power relations between men and women. Some women may have power in-service but they are not autonomous. The woman conforms to patriarchal roles and expectations where she is seen to be endlessly giving, even to the extent of self-harm.   “Women are the most gifted people in the world yet the least, the kindest but the cruellest, the cleverest but the stupidest, the most reliable but the most fickle, the most virtuous but the most immoral. Women drive us mad because they don’t always live up to our expectations.   “The role of women in society is now more sophisticated. It seems as if, for all the freedoms this century has offered, society demands full payment in compensation. Single, stay-at-home moms are no longer acceptable. Non-professional women are frowned upon and termed lazy. The average woman is expected to be a perfect mother, an excellent wife, a caring and polite in-law, a successful professional, a good marketer and a PR expert. A slight flaw in any of these roles and the criticism comes pouring in. Society expects the modern woman to be a super-hero and will punish her mercilessly if she falls short. In short, women are set up to fail.”   Misogyny, she added, has everything to do with “alerting us to codes of practice that legitimize the systemic humiliation of women,” and that evidence of misogynistic acts is often invisible, ignored or covered up by both the powers that be and the victims.   “The problem with misogyny is that people don’t think it should be taken seriously.   “The purpose of this exercise is to bring to the fore what we do, what we might do and what we don’t notice we are doing in both private and public that legitimize misogyny. If you somehow feel the need to check the gender of the author of this article it is a sure indication that you are susceptible to, or complacent about, misogyny.”   She noted that these are the ideas that inspired the body of works on display at this exhibition. She also disclosed that the works in this exhibition were produced in Swansea in the UK as part of a residency programme sponsored by the Marion Donalda Fund for Visual Artists in partnership with Yemaja Gallery.   The works include ‘Against all Odds’, which shows a woman holding a baby’s hand while clutching the tip of the moon and riding through the sun. It is a visual representation of women’s tenacity for success in the face of life’s challenges, a scenario commonly found amongst Nigerian women.   In the painting, ‘Triumph over Misogyny’, a maiden masquerade in full body attire, inscribed with African ethnic motifs and a mask head gear, is caught in mid-step as she dances. “This lone dancer represents the many small victories individual women achieve as they consciously and collectively engage with the challenges of misogyny.”   She explained that The ‘Brides in Waiting’ and the ‘Looking Ahead’ series were prompted by the incessant portrayal of African women and children as the face of poverty in the international media. The plethora of humanitarian organisations using photographs of the suffering African woman and child to solicit for donations has now become ubiquitous. 