The Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has said that the preoccupation of the Force now, was the return of displaced persons in the North East to their ancestral homes.
The COAS, who stated this in his welcome address at the opening ceremony of the combined Nigerian Army Day Celebration (NADCEL) and Combat Support Arms Training (COSAT) Week 2019, held I n Lagos, said the Army will continue to prosecute its constitutional mandate of defending the territorial integrity of the nation.
This was as Buratai further enjoined officers and soldiers to demonstrate “unquestiinallble” loyalty to constituted authorities at all times.
“I am pleased to state that the NA has made giant strides in curbing various security threats since the dawn of the current administration. We have not only consolidated on the gains established in the fight against insurgency in the NE but have progressed to the stabilization phase where all efforts are geared towards ensuring displaced persons return to their traditional homes.
“This year’s NADCEL is being conducted at a time when our soldiers are still fighting various evils bedevilling the nation on various fronts. A good number of our colleagues have over the years made the ultimate sacrifice in the process of keeping Nigerians safe.
“Many Nigerians have lost a sibling, relative or friend as our troops battled the enemy at the gate of our beloved nation. We honour these heroes and hold them in high esteem. They are the reason why we are alive and marching on to victory with teary eyes but with courageous hearts”, Buratai said.
He disclosed that he had pursued a vision of enthroning a culture of professiinalism, insisting that operational effectiveness could hardly be achieved in the absence of discipline.
His words: “Since my appointment as the 20th COAS in Jul 15, I have pursued a transformational vision which is to have a professionally responsive NA in the discharge of its constitutional roles. This is based on my core conviction of not only military subordination to civil authorities but also the fact that increased military professionalism ultimately yields greater effectiveness in military operations. It is in the spirit of my vision that this year’s NADCEL theme is aptly crafted as Professionally Responsive Soldiering: A Panacea for Successful Military Operations.
“Gentlemen, we will continue to do everything possible in our resolve to build a formidable army supported by a well trained and equipped combat support arms. I sincerely commend the efforts of the combat support arms in the ongoing counter insurgency operation in the North East (NE) where the artillery has effectively acquired, located and engaged ground targets while the air defence continue to prevent hostile aerial interference with our land operations.”