Stakeholders in Nigeria’s housing industry have called on the Federal Government to reform her broken mortgage finance system. Specifically, the housing advocacy group, which comprises over 100 professionals and being coordinated by the promoter of Abuja International Housing Show, Mr. Festus Adebayo, said President Muhammadu Buhari should use a limited and appropriately compensated government’s role that would encourage private capital participation and ensure reliable access to long-term fixed-rate mortgages and financing for social housing nationwide. This, they said, should include a broad commitment to access and affordability through measurable and enforceable standards. Other professionals in the group include the Affordable Housing Advocate, Mr Kunle Faleti, President of Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria, Mr Ugochukwu Chime; President, Nigerian Institute of Building, Mr. Kenneth Nduka; former President of Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Mr. Stephen Onu and host of others. Speaking as part of agenda setting for President Buhari and the 9th National Assembly (NASS), the stakeholders canvassed the adoption of the Mortgage Legislation on Model Mortgage and Foreclosure Law (MMFL). They stated that the Multidoor Court process should be a condition precedent for project investment in Nigeria. While seeking urgent intervention for cheap mortgage finance, they pointed out that the interest rates, both for public and private mortgage institutions, ought to be affordable and that it should be within a single digit rate. They said: “The current rate is very expensive and is affecting affordability for many Nigerians willing to key into the mortgage plans in the market. An intervention in this area is urgently needed, even if it will require stakeholders’ engagement.” The professionals want the 9th NASS to consider legislations that would embolden public and private mortgage institutions in Nigeria to consider the option of lowering mortgage interest rates in order to increase housing affordability. In what he termed “Next Level Housing Finance Reform Agenda For Nigeria,” Faleti said there must be a commitment to serve requirement in Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company (NMRC) and appropriate funding for the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and Family Homes Fund. He emphasised that the Federal Government should ensure access to affordable and sustainable mortgage credit that would broadly serve homeownership-ready borrowers through a variety of public and private channels. This, he said, should include addressing the homeownership gap for communities comprising mainly of low income earning citizens, while solving the impact of informal income on homeownership. Besides, he wants the Federal Government to sustain, strengthen and modernise FMBN’s capacity and flexibility to meet the nation’s housing financing needs, while protecting the taxpayer’s investment. He said government should “encourage private enterprise to serve the housing needs of all through real estate development, capital investment and financial services, including support for the acquisition, development and construction of affordable housing.” According to Faleti, working groups should develop policies to address five key areas, which include homeownership; rent affordability; homelessness; disaster relief and community development. He called on government to also reform the process of developing an opinion of value, for real property through the Real Estate Appraisal, Property Valuation and Land Valuation Act. The Housing Development Advocacy Group also urged the National Assembly to review the Land Use Act and remove some obnoxious clauses inhibiting easy access to land and affordable mortgage from the document. They stated that one major feature of the land-use policy constraining housing development and optimal economic use of land resources was the mandatory requirement of governor’s consent to land transactions such as sale, assignment, transfer or mortgage of land in urban areas. Puncturing this aspect, the experts said the consent process was fraught with great difficulties, adding that it was costly (with fees assessed at upwards of 35 per cent of the market value of the underlying land), corrupt, laced with bureaucratic delays, and outright exploitative with the result that only a very small percentage of land or property owners ever bother applying for such consent. Making case for the review and amendment of this aspect of the law, they stated that without consent, land owner would remain without a valid title (evidenced by a certificate of occupancy) to the land. They added that without valid certificate of occupancy, land owner would not be able to convert landed assets to economic value through a mortgage or other means of capital generation.