This herdsmen-must-go cacophony has been louder than the Ghana-must-go noise of the 80s, don’t you think? Everybody is talking at the same time. Each person is insisting his position is right and nobody wants to admit there is another way out of this noisy market. It’s either my way or the highway, all the way. How is that even logical or sensible?  The Yoruba have a saying that shows that our different positions don’t have to lead us in different directions. There are many roads that lead to the market.   ‘Ona kan o w’oja. ‘  And if we can all get to the market from different angles, why don’t we do just that instead of arguing over which route is shorter, longer, safer, more dangerous or whatever? That’s what we have all been doing all year. Speaking big English, throwing terminologies and generally pissing one another off. Yet the market is still empty. We are still in our different huts. So, I ask, why are we still all at home, selling nothing and buying nothing when all we should be doing is doing good business and making good money?  “Ruga it is and Ruga it must be.”  “Not on our ancestral land.”   “Everybody must be free to go everywhere in Nigeria.”   “Ruga is a monster designed to decapitate our children.”  “Ruga is a thief.”   “The 401 gods of Yoruba land forbid Ruga. Indeed, they will fight all cows and their owners.”  “Alright, herdsmen and herds boys, come home, don’t let them kill you.”  “We, the herdsmen were not consulted and so we are not going home.”  “Herdsmen must go.”  ‘Herdsmen must come.”  “Herdsmen will stay.”  My ears are ringing. Why is there so much noise about something that is purely a money-making venture, strictly a matter of commerce? Why are we letting politicians into something that is strictly about hard work, sweat and business? When are we all going to learn from Nollywood and the Nigerian entertainment industry? Or haven’t we noticed that the only reason Nollywood is thriving is because it has not allowed politicians to politicize it? Musicians choose who they sing for, make good money and are free to change their minds and lyrics between one election and the next campaign. Nigerian movies are now on Netflix. Canal+ just acquired ROK studios. Wizkid is making money in every currency. Genevieve Nnaji took her ‘Lionhearted ’ straight to Netflix. Bottom line, Nigerian music and movies are export commodities. Yorubawood, Igbowood, Kannywood, any wood, Nigeria is earning money in other currencies apart from naira.   Nollywood has stayed strong, grown in leaps and bounds because it has not allowed ethnicity or partisan politics creep into its fold. Indeed, these days, I see Chinwetalu Agu in movies with Yoruba stories. Ojopagogo (Rasaq Olayiwola) in an unforgettable episode of ‘Castle and Castle’, a legal drama series on Ebony Television.   It’s all business and smart operators in the Nigerian entertainment industry know it’s about making money and they are smiling to their banks.   Pray tell me, is rearing cattle a hobby? Is it about politics? Does anybody ask the meat-seller if the beef he’s selling is from Borno or Adamawa? Does anybody really ask the chef in Sheraton or Transcorp if the beef he’s serving speaks Yoruba or Fulfude?   I’m confused by all the noise, really? How do you explain it to your 10-year-old that ranching, cattle farming is just a business, not a blood-sucking spirit being supervised by witches and wizards? The bewildered boy hears and sees news about herdsmen and the news item are about death, kidnapping and AK47. Now he wants to have a piggery because he thinks cow business is dangerous.   We really need to interrogate the kind of examples we are laying for our children and the kind of Nigeria we will hand over to them.   In all good faith and decent sense of patriotism, I think we should exclude politicians from our business and any clean business. We can even go a step further by threatening them with the wrath of God Almighty and all the gods and goddesses of our land (that is the 401 in Yoruba land and all the ones from Bayelsa to Sokoto). Politicians can’t be trusted too much. Haven’t they already messed up our polity and politics almost beyond redemption?   I will make my point that cattle rearing is strictly business and it should be treated strictly as such.   Should there be ranches? Of course, we need ranches. We already have poultry and piggery, even snake farms where we keep snakes so we can export their venom. So, we must have ranches. Cows are for sale. They are not museum pieces and we do not worship them like some do in India.    So, let’s build ranches all over. Aren’t there shopping malls all over the country? Are the shopping malls owned by an ethnic group? Are the malls occupied by all or just Tiv, Jukun, Okrika business men and women?   You need to feed and care for boars to get a good number of piglets. You need to feed your laying chicken with layer mash to get eggs out of them. You don’t see poultry farmers herding chickens from house to house looking for wastes and leftovers to feed them. I don’t even want to imagine pig owners taking their pigs all over the place seeking cassava farms to devour. If a chicken or pig owner decide to herd them, aaah, people will steal, kill, beat them and curse the owner. In any case, that farmer will make less money than those who keep theirs in enclosed pig farms and poultry farms. You will be shocked at how much money pig farmers make watching football, playing scrabble while their pigs make piglets in dozens.  So, what’s wrong with doing the same with cows?   Cows, herding, ranching are private business matters, not federal or state government matter. My cows are my business. All government needs to do is support us cattle farmers with loans, land, security and opportunities to export beef.   Namibia is a nation of 2.49 million people (just about three LGs in Lagos State) ranking 143rd nation in the world. It exports beef to Europe, to China. Nigeria is inching towards 200 million in population and all we are doing is talking beef, fighting beef, threatening beef, not exporting beef, not even putting our beef in an organized environment so we can make money from it. Just thinking of our thoughtlessness is exhausting, I tell you.   What is wrong with encouraging investors to build ranches all over the country and lease to farmers, ranches with all necessary amenities? I’d like to own a few myself and earn easy revenue. It’d be like building event centres, shopping malls and letting or leasing them. Let’s deregulate this ranching business. Treat it like any other business. Let those who know how to make money get in the mix.  Niger State is the largest state in Nigeria with 76,363km2. Borno has 70,898km2 and Taraba 54.473km2. Those states and indeed all the states in Nigeria need to increase their IGR. All the governors need to talk to all the bank CEOs about leasing land to ranch developers. The states will make more money. The ranch developers will need to buy building materials. They will need bricklayers, welders, carpenters, plumbers, all of whom will need to eat. Those with houses to rent will make money from the developers’ work force. The petty traders will make more money. Jobs will be created. The people will be happy. Cows will be happier. Herdsmen will be richer. In fact, herdsmen will no longer be called herdsmen. They will be called business men. What’s wrong with having Nigerian Cattle Chamber of Commerce? Why can’t we put sentiments aside and do what makes sense?   All this talk about stressing cows from North to South is embarrassing, really. What if we are like Israel where rain is luxury? Where would the greener pastures be? Would there be a difference between the South and the North? Yet, in spite of Israel’s rain constraints, it exports vegetables to the U.K. I was in Israel a few years ago and I couldn’t believe the size of their fruits. Israeli bananas are bigger and fresher than Nigerian plantains   We are mouthing diversification of the economy but we can’t see our cows as that alternative. 2.4 million Namibians can see export opportunity in their cows. They go months with seeing a drop of rain but 180 million plus Nigerians can’t see a golden opportunity to earn forex outside of oil?  Isn’t it just sad that 2.4 million Namibians are smarter than 180 million Nigerians?  Truly, totally sad. 