President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commended the Chanrai family for their commitment to the development of Nigeria through long-term investments, and humanitarian services, providing free health services to the underprivileged. The President stated this yesterday at the commissioning of the Tulsi Chanrai Hospital in Abuja. Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, in a statement, quoted Buhari as saying that the family’s investments in the country since Nigeria’s independence clearly showed a dedication to the wellbeing of Nigerians, especially by channeling resources into making life better for many, mostly the poor. He said: “I am very pleased to note their contribution to check and prevent avoidable blindness by restoring the vision of more than 120,000 Nigerians, free of charge. These services will now be enhanced with this state of the art hospital in the heart of Nigeria,’’ he said. Buhari said the Chanrai family was initially involved in trading and industrial manufacturing, with plants in various parts of the country, engaging in processing, and has branched into humanitarian activities. “The vision of the Tulsi Chanrai Foundation is to ‘build a healthy Nigeria’. Since its inception, the Foundation has been instrumental in implementing several projects related to Primary Health Care, Eye Care and Safe drinking water, throughout the country. “In addition, I am informed that the foundation is engaged in rehabilitation of boreholes program across Nigeria, covering 32 states. So far, they have rehabilitated more than 7,000 boreholes providing safe drinking water to more than three million Nigerians,’’ the President added. In his remarks, Mr Jagdish Chanrai, Chairman Tulsi Chanrai Foundation, said more than 60 per cent of services will be targeted at the poor, especially in restoring sight and correcting defects, noting that the hospital, which commenced services in January, had attended to 6, 400 patients and performed over 1,000 eye surgeries, with 850 of them provided free.