Chief Emmanuel Okumagba is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State. The septuagenarian politician, in this interview with Ola James, speaks on governance in the state, particularly the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Excerpts:  How would you assess the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa?
Okowa has gone through the political ranks from his local government as chairman to the state government, where he became a commissioner. From being a commissioner, he became the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and from there to become a senator. To be sincere with you, anyone who can be SSG for a tenure as was his case, be rest assured that he can rule the state because that is the fulcrum on which the governance of the state is oiled. Having served as senator, he came back to be governor of the state. Of all the governors that had ruled Delta State, he is the only one who amassed an overwhelming political experience before becoming the governor and that has reflected in the governance of the state.
That is why with lesser financial resources, he has been a very good manager. At 60, age is still on his side. I believe he will return to national politics, maybe in other capacities that you can never imagine now because governance is all about experience. I told a few persons, those who cared to listen, that Great Ogboru is not a match to Okowa. Delta State is a microcosm of Nigeria, so we are with him in our prayers as he continues in his second tenure. We hope he will do even better for a stronger Delta State as he has promised. You have recounted the governor’s achievements in the first four years, but he has however promised to do more in his second term. In which specific areas are you expecting him to place emphasis?
Well, he has started the Asaba Capital Development Authority. Before now the drains in Asaba were badly constructed. Today, he has a masterplan, which empties water into the River Niger. I can attest to the fact that during his town hall meeting last year at the Federal Government College, Warri, some of us made presentations bordering on the status of the town, Warri, one of the 26 provincial headquarters in Nigeria. Today, it is the only provincial headquarters that is not a state capital. So, we raised the issue as Warri people that the governor should make a deliberate effort and provide an annual fund to elevate Warri to somewhere near the status of a state capital that it could not get.
We also made it clear that Warri problem borders on lack of drains, which make it impossible for the roads constructed to stay. Several other requests were made to him, but I recount this because I was at the vanguard of that request. Behold, at the end of the question and answer session, while responding, he made a pledge, an effective promise, that what we have requested shall be considered. I also made a graphical presentation of the waterways that have now been blocked by buildings, debris and what have you. I traced them because I’m a native, I know the terrain.
I think I must have impressed him by my description of the place. And while responding, he did say, yes, something will be done and that the Asaba situation was one in which so much has been wasted until he decided to provide a consultant to do a proper survey of the place and made recommendations, and that he was going to do a similar thing in Warri given the scenario captured by us to him. The other promise he made was that, because I know the terrain so well, a small committee will be set up and he will be asking me to be a member of that committee.
Barely a few months later, he did set up that committee and we were two persons appointed to represent the Itsekiris and Urhobos interest. And he named it Warri/Effurun and Environs Committee. We went round Warri for several weeks. Twice a week we were in Warri to go round the City, Effurun and part of Udu Local Government Area. That assignment took us about three months. Eventually, we presented our report. And modestly speaking, I think that project will cost about N30 billion. And because he is a very serious-minded person, he was very clear to us at the submission that it is a big project.
He said he will not be able to provide for it at a go in a single budget. It is going to be broken down in the order of priority and that each sector of the drains and roads will be prioritized. If you look at his empowerment programme, it is painful that the buoyancy of the Ibori era is no more there, if not, with the caliber of the person of Senator Okowa at the helms of affairs, I wouldn’t have been surprised if Delta State becomes the El Dorado of Nigeria. We pray that the finances improve; we will keep asking our people to pay their taxes and to raise internally-generated revenue (IGR). With that, money can be made available to execute all these laudable projects. You have just alluded to the fact that resources accruable to the present government compared to what previous governments got, have been very lean as it were. You also attributed Okowa’s success to his experience and ability to manage the lean resources. Would you by that suggest that the previous governments were not economical enough with the huge resources they got?
I don’t want to say so because in the first place, the people came on board and they applied their experience to the resources available to them. But there exists a whole world of difference between them and Okowa, in the sense that a man who has gone through the mill, he knows all the potholes, the bends and all that because of his experience.
Like I said before, the opportunity to become the SSG is a training ground for governance of the state. This is coupled with his role at the local government council as a former chairman. The local government administration is a replica of the government of the state and so, when you have a learning process from the local government level, it is bound to reflect in your governance of a bigger concern like the state.
Finally, he left for the Senate where people of varied experiences meet learn from one another. It was an advantage for him like nobody had ever had. So, you reap what you sow and Deltans are reaping from the experience of Governor Okowa. You also harped on the governor’s ability to create jobs by way of empowerment programmes, but there have been complaints from many quarters that the level of joblessness, especially youth unemployment in Delta State is very much on the high side compared to other states in the country. Are you very sure the empowerment programme is actually addressing the unemployment problem in the state?
Let me give a more vivid situation. Today, the state government inherited a bloated civil service. You know, the presidential system of government is very expensive. So much goes into the payment of salaries of aides as per the provision of the constitution. You can imagine what the Senate president, Deputy Senate president, the senators, the speaker and other members and their aides receive. All of these suck our money dry. So, the allocation that comes to the state is very meager, except where you already have established industries where you can tap into to increase your Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) like in Lagos State.
When there is serious tax drive, it aids governance. Like I said, we have a very bloated civil service. Walk into any ministry; if you see 10 staff, seven are just loafing. Secondly, Delta State is one of the educationally advantageous states and so, we produce graduates massively annually. But there are no commensurate opportunities by way of industries to take up these graduates. You just spoke about the bloated civil service which the governor, according to you inherited. But it is evident that in his first tenure, the governor made massive political appointments to the extent that some of them had no offices or job schedules. Would you still advice the governor to go on with such heavy burden of political appointments as was in his first tenure?
While I would not completely agree that the governor made bloated political appointments, I also believe that in his second tenure, it will not be business as usual. This is more importantly because, he is already trying to cut his coat according to his cloth. You can see that he started with just eight commissioners, not the omnibus thing that we had in the first tenure even though he may still wish to increase the number. Again, like I have said before, this presidential system of government is superfluous in terms of providing for cronies and those who make it possible for politicians to win election. There have been complaints from some quarters since the governor commenced appointment of his commissioners to the effect that he is recycling the old cabinet members with little consideration to new blood. What is your take on that?
You see, any governor worth his salt, especially an experienced one like Governor Okowa, knows that when you have a square hole, you have to find a square peg that will fit in. He worked with several commissioners; he did not pick all of them. He is picking those he believes in and whose capacities he trusts. If you want to flood the place with neophytes, people who have no experience, then you are also nailing your coffin of poor performance. So, taking key players in his last regime is a deliberate attempt to ensure continuity of his excellent performance.
I know that, as a Road Master, his Commissioner for Works and his retinue of staff returning will enhance governance and road construction. I know that the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice has been returned. He is familiar with that terrain. For me, those are areas of special interest. And when you look at the state as it is, you need experienced hands. He is able to do what he is doing because of his own experience. So, he is also looking out for those who worked with him and who have also acquired experience. That is what matters to Deltans and not just bringing a floodgate of neophytes. I know there will be a mix breed and I still believe he will add a few more, but not a bloated one.