Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, said on yesterday that his government intended to quickly turn around the security architecture of Oyo State in order to open up the state for foreign investors.
Makinde, according to a statement made public by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, said that he would relaunch the State’s Joint Task Force on Security, Operation Burst, commanded by Brigadier-General Oluyinka Soyele.
The governor, who said this during a visit to the headquarters of the Operation Burst, maintained that he would re-launch the outfit within his first 100 days in office so as to guarantee investors of a peaceful and conducive environment.
He said: “Let me use this opportunity to appreciate the good work you have been doing in this state. For us in Oyo State, you have allowed our people to have confidence in your outfit. I asked people to give me complaints about the outfit but they were neither here nor there.
“This administration has four main pillars with agric value chain as a key aspect to promote foreign investment. But we will be very limited in our drive if people come here and they do not have a conducive atmosphere to do their business.
“What is there for us to do is to redesign the security architecture to ensure adequate security for our people. Nobody will invest in an atmosphere of insecurity.”
“The challenge of herdsmen and farmers, kidnapping, killings will basically make the environment more challenging.
“We appreciate the fact that if we want to achieve all the other pillars we have mentioned, the security needs to be taken seriously. We have a lot of work to do as regards security.
“I am in a hurry to bring investors to Oyo State and I want them to see a new dawn and a new Oyo state.
“I am disposed to beefing up this outfit and ensuring that you have enough men to help you and you can always count on us that we will take your welfare seriously.”
Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has hailed the decision of Makinde to make public his assets declaration forms in line with his electioneering campaign promise. The party noted that such voluntary decision further demonstrated Makinde’s commitment to transparency and good governance, for which the people of Oyo state voted massively for him on 9th March, 2019 governorship election. The PDP commended Makinde for refusing to repudiate the promises he made in the heat of elections, which was an uncommon act of fidelity in our clime. The PDP is assured that this stance would further endear him to the people of Oyo State as well as showcase our party as a party whose members take their words as their bond.