The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has charged officers, airmen and airwomen of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to sustain the tempo in the fight against armed banditry, kidnapping and insurgency.
He said the current security challenges facing the country, if left unchecked, posed grave danger to the collective co-existence of Nigerians.
He therefore urged them to re-double their efforts in order to make the Service more relevant and effective in addressing the current and future security challenges in the country.
The CAS stated this while commissioning 3 newly renovated blocks of officers’ accommodation and a warehouse at NAF Base, Bill Clinton Drive, Abuja.
Speaking on his behalf, the Air Officer Commanding, Air Training Command, Air Vice Marshal Muhammad Suleiman, said projects like these were initiated in all NAF Bases to ensure the provision of a conducive atmosphere for personnel at their various work places and homes. He disclosed that providing decent housing for officers, airmen and airwomen remained one of the priorities of HQ NAF’s policy thrust towards ensuring personnel and their families live in befitting accommodation to make them better prepared to respond to various exigencies of the Service. He congratulated the beneficiaries of the renovated accommodation and urged them to use it responsibly for optimal performance.
Meanwhile, in continuation of Operation GREEN SWEEP 2, the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE has destroyed terrorists’ hideouts and killed some fighters at Gobara and Bakassi, Borno State in separate air raids conducted over the weekend.
According to the Director of Public Relations and Information, Nigerian Air Force, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, the settlements are two of the targets selected for attack in the intensive air interdiction operations launched by the ATF on Wednesday, 26 June 2019.
“The attack on Gobara, a settlement in the Sambisa Forest area, was carried out by two Alpha Jets after Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions had identified a segment of the settlement being used by Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) fighters to store their logistics and other equipment. The jets scored accurate hits in the target area, leading to the destruction of some of the structures and equipment as well as the killing of several terrorists.”