Members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) otherwise called Shiites yesterday returned to the streets of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and continued with their daily protest.  This came barely 24 hours after the bloody clash between Shiites and the police claimed several lives and destruction of public utilities. One of those killed was a deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Usman Umar. Also killed was a reporter with Channels Television, Precious Owolabi.  Shiites, who are protesting the continued detention of their leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, also claimed that 11 of their members were killed during the Monday protest. But yesterday, tension was heightened while commercial activities were paralysed as soon as the Shiites were sighted gathering around the Banex Shopping Plaza area within Wuse 2 District.  But police said they arrested 12 suspects yesterday. The IMN members’ usual procession was, however, cut short by riot police officers who immediately arrived the area to disperse them with tear gas and sporadic shooting.  Meanwhile, the Permanent Secretary of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA), Christian Ohaa, has assured residents of the FCT that government had emplaced measures to protect lives and property. Ohaa added that the unfortunate incident that claimed the lives of Umar and Owolabi would not be allowed to repeat itself.  The permanent secretary gave the assurance when he paid condolence visits to the families of Umar, Owolabi and the FCT Police Command. According to him, those who break the law will face the full weight of the law. He said: “This type of incident will not repeat itself.  As I speak to you now, all hands are on desk and the government will prevent this incident. Both the security agencies and other relevant agencies will work together to ensure the safety of the law-abiding citizens those who break the laws will face the full weight of the law.  “There is no more preaching but day in day out, our people will make sure that this does not repeat itself because the Federal Capital is housing Mr President, Senate, Chief Justice of the federation and all diplomatic individuals in FCT.” Ohaa said he and the management team were on the visits to condole with the bereaved families.   He said: “It is very tragic because he (Umar) died on duty; he died while trying to save lives of the ordinary citizens. He died to make sure that others go about their businesses peacefully. “We are saddened by this because he is one of the finest officers the police have produced in this country.  We believe that he is in paradise because of his good works. “You and your men should keep the flag flying, because without police Nigeria is in danger. Your men, rank and files should not be threatened that   one of their strongest patriots is gone.”  Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, FCT Command, Adamu Ciroma, appreciated the visit. He said: “This is a visit of hope, I will take the hope to the officers and mess so that they will continue in the discharge of their duties. “We will always do our best to ensure that the relative peace we have been enjoying in FCT is attributed to the late DCP. We are going to up our game to protect FCT residents.  We will work harder that residents are safe and secured.” Similarly, Controller of Programmes, Channels TV, Mr. Ambrose Okoh, said “this is a sad moment for us, because he was a young man with lot of hopes and expectations but his hope was shattered”.  According to him, they have paid a visit to the police commissioner to know whose bullet hit the young man so that justice will be done. “Despite this, we will continue to do our work to inform Nigerians of the happenings in Nigeria and around the world,” he added.  Meanwhile, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Anjuguri Manzah, said 12 protesters were arrested yesterday. He said: “The suspects were arrested while on the rampage attacking innocent members of the public, blocking roads and disrupting activities around the Banex area. “The police personnel drafted to the scene acted professionally by using minimum force to bring the situation under control and restore normalcy in the area. “The 12 suspects arrested are currently being interrogated by the team of police detectives.”