BABATOPE OKEOWO reports that, with the nomination of Senator Omotayo Alasoadura as a minister representing Ondo State, the gang-up against Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu ahead of the 2020 governorship election, might have crumbled.  A fter much delay, President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday forwarded a list of his ministerial nominees to the Senate for screening and confirmation. Among those chosen is Senator Tayo Alasoadura, an ally of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, to represent Ondo State. Many analysts believe that the nomination has given the governor an edge ahead of the battle for the ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket in next year’s governorship election. The belief in the state is that Akeredolu is behind the choice of Alasoadura as the representative of the state in the new cabinet of Buhari. The governor had earlier said Akure, the state capital, should be given the opportunity to produce the minister that will represent the state. Akeredolu made the case for Akure to produce the next minister while speaking during a reception held in honour of Alasoadura. Before now, no indigene of the state capital, had been appointed a minister since the return of Nigeria to democracy in 1999. Giving credence to the position that Akeredolu nominated Alasoadura, the pioneer Chairman of the APC in the State, Hon Duerimini Isaacs Kekemeke, said the appointment would lead to the marginalisation of those who are not in the governor’s camp. He said: “I have to congratulate Alasoadura as a Minister of Federal Republic. Apparently, Chief Alasoadura is from the camp of the governor. I think it is a matter of time before we all come together. But my idea about this is that this is the 2016 cycle where a great number of men were excluded from patronage both at the central and the state level. “I believe the cycle will run in full and every one of us will continue to see ourselves as party people who will be patronised, irrespective of whatever block you belong to. My appeal is to party men to accept it”, he said. The governor had criticised the people of the senatorial district particularly the people of Akure South and North Federal Constituency for the defeat of Alasoadura in the last general election despite his performance at the eighth National Assembly. He said Alasoadura, who was the Chairman, Senate Committee on Petroleum (upstream), performed very well and deserved being re-elected. A surprise nomination Despite the hint given by the governor, the nomination of Alasoadura came as a surprise to most people in the state. The former senator was not among those expected to clinch the slot. If at all, the position would be given to an Akure indigene, the general view was that it would either go to the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Ifedayo Abegunde, or the Special Adviser to the Governor on Public and Inter-Governmental Relations, Mrs. Olubunmi Ademosu. Alternatively, the thinking is that it would go to Engr. Tunji- Light Ariyomo, who is the Special Adviser to the Governor on Energy. The three of them were said to have been placed on hold for the top job. The Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi, had always made a case for either Abegunde or Ariyomo. He had said that the two of them could represent the state at the Federal Executive Council when the monarch told Vice President Yemi Osinbajo during a visit to the state that the two of them should be considered for federal appointments. No prominent person from the Ondo North Senatorial District eyed the job. Reason being that Akeredolu hails from Owo Local Government Area in the district. That was the reason nobody expected that the position would be clinched from the zone. But from the Southern Senatorial District were three strong politicians seeking the job. They included Kekemeke, the Executive Director, Engineering and Technical Services, Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC), Engr. Ife Oyedele; and a former governorship aspirant in the state, Chief Olusola Oke. There were speculations that Oyedele was the favourite of an Abuja group for the ministerial slot. Regarded to be a close political associate of President Buhari, Oyedele was said to be the person who designed the logo of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). The NDPHC boss, who hails from Okitipupa Local Government Area, was also said to have played an important role in the formation of the APC in 2013. It was learnt that a group of Abuja politicians sought the ministerial job for him so that he would be well placed to displace Akeredolu in the 2020 election. Kekemeke, who is also a former member of the state House of Assembly, one time Commissioner for Works and Secretary to the State Government (SSG), is a native of Ese-Odo Local Government Area. The legal practitioner failed to secure the state ministerial slot in 2015 as he was said to have narrowly lost to Prof. Claudius Daramola, the immediate past Minister of State for Niger Delta. It was learnt that Kekemeke romanced the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for the job. He is one of those eyeing Akeredolu’s seat. The former lawmaker is already seeking support from APC members for his quest for the party’s nomination to contest the 2020 gubernatorial poll in the state. Oke, who is from Ilaje Local Government Area, also wanted the ministerial job to enhance his chances of winning the next governorship election in the state. The two-time governorship candidate and Southwest Coordinator of President Buhari Campaign Organisation in the last election was speculated to have secured the nod of Tinubu for the ministerial ticket. But recently, there was a report that Oke might drop both the ministerial bid and governorship ambition as he was being considered for the Chairman of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), a position, which Ondo has never occupied. Undoubtedly, the appointment of Alasoadura will significantly alter the political calculations and permutations in the Sunshine State ahead of the 2020 gubernatorial poll. Being a reliable political soulmate of Akeredolu, the appointment of Alasoadura is considered to be an added advantage to the governor. Finding by Saturday Telegraph showed that the appointment is like taking the wind out of the sail of any conspiracy against Akeredolu. According to political watchers, if the state ministerial slot had been secured by a foe of Akeredolu, the position would have been effectively deployed to whittle down the governor’s influence and probably chase him out of the Alagbaka Government House in 2020. To the opposition within the APC, it would have enriched the foe with enormous political energy to wrestle the party’s nomination with the governor.With the exception of Oyedele who is connected to the Abuja group, those seeking to oust Akeredolu from the office within the ruling APC are in the camp of Tinubu. They include Dr. Segun Abraham, Kekemeke, Oke, and Ambassador Sola Iji. In the state, the ministerial position has always given ambitious politicians leverage to dislodge the incumbent. It gives such politicians the power, influence, political vantage and stamina to effectively pursue their aspiration. Looking back The late Dr. Olusegun Agagu contested the governorship of the state against equally late Chief Adebayo Adefarati in 1999. Adefarati defeated Agagu, who was compensated with a ministerial slot by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Despite the appointment, the then minister did not take his eyes away from the seat. He took advantage of his ministerial position to kick Adefarati out of the Alagbaka Government House in 2003. The immediate past governor of the state, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, is another study in how to deploy the power and influence of a ministerial position to dislodge an incumbent governor. Mimiko joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) few weeks to the 2003 gubernatorial election. After the victory of Agagu, Mimiko was appointed the Secretary to the State Government (SSG). While Agagu’s mind was preoccupied with governance in the state, Mimiko was eyeing his seat and seeking opportunities to shove aside his boss. An opportunity came when the Ondoborn politician was appointed a minister following the sacking of Mrs. Mobolaji Osomo. Mimiko effectively utilised the position to push Agagu off the gubernatorial seat and achieve his ambition to rule the state. Analysts have therefore argue that the appointment of Alasoadura could be a blessing to Akeredolu because the former senator is a strong loyalist of the governor. The loyalty of Alasoadura to his political associates has always been like that of a dog to its owner. Though he contested the governorship ticket of the APC against Akeredolu in 2006, after he lost the shadow poll, he has been one of the strong pillars behind the governor. Meanwhile, Akeredolu has applauded the nomination of Alasoadura as a minister of the Federal Republic. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mr. Ojo Oyewamide, the governor expressed confidence in the ability of the Akure born politician to discharge his assigned responsibilities just as he thanked Buhari for the wise choice. He said: “Undoubtedly, Buhari has made a wise pick in Alasoadura who has demonstrated over the years, an unquenchable desire for excellence, hard work, and commitment to assigned responsibilities. “Having had an eventful and memorable stay in the Senate, Alasoadura provided what could be regarded as an immeasurably valuable representation to his people. “It is therefore without any iota of doubt that Senator Alasoadura will bring to bear, his rich pool of experience to galvanise the needed support for Mr. President’s Next Level Agenda”, the governor said.