As preparations for this year’s edition of Akwaaba African Travel Market gets underway, the organisers of the annual travel and tourism trade conference and exhibition,Atqnews, has released the shortlist of winners of the Africa Travel 100 global personalities to be honoured at the event. The event is billed to hold at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos, Nigeria between September 22 and 24, with the travel award ceremony scheduled for September 23.The award is expected to honour personalities in the travel and tourism sector that have exemplified themselves in the industry and contributed to the growth of the sector in Africa and in the Diaspora. Akwaaba, which is now in its 15 year this year has an interesting line up for the three days as it looks to present a diverse range of destinations to Africa and international travel professionals, and a unique opportunity for African travel trade market to meet, negotiate, network and conduct businesses with top players in travel and tourism. Some of the activities slated for the three days, according to the organisers, include the staging of the third edition of the West African Chef Challenge – Jollofrice War, which is billed for the opening day, Sunday September 22, shortly after the formal opening ceremony. Chefs from across Nigeria and other West Africa countries, such as Ghana and Gambia, are expected to renew their rivalries on whose country has the best culinary offerings, with Charity Githinji, a business development consultant and trainer, Didier Bayeye of Sun International and Safie Ali of Sathco African Safaris as judges for the day. The star event for Monday September 23 is Dubai Day celebration, which has been tagged: A glimpse of Dubai, featuring a breakfast session and presentations on the different offerings of Dubai. Also Gambian day will follow suit while Aviation Day and the Youth Tourism Panels will hold on Tuesday September 24. The Africa Travel 100 global personalities award ceremony will be part of the First African Tourism Diaspora Conference 2019. The conference is expected to draw top tourism personalities from around the world to Lagos and it is dedicated to mark the 400 years of slavery. Some of the speakers at the first Diaspora Conference 2019 include: Professor Godfrey Nzamujo of Songhai Integrated Agriculture, Benin Republic; Thomas O. Mensah, who is the creator of Fibre optic and an author; Alain St. Ange of Seychelles; Carol i. Hay of Caribbean Tourism Organisation; and fabiaen Anthony of Pan – African Council. Others are: Sharon Palacio of Belize; and Alhaji Bamanga Tukur of African Business Roundtable – Nigeria while the royal father of the day is the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwsi Ojaja II. Some of the shortlisted names for awards include: Rohan Vos of Rovos Rail (South Africa); and Frank Nneji of ABC Transport (Nigeria) under transportation; Tewolde Gebremariam of Ethiopian Airlines; Rahel Assefa of Ethiopian Airlines; Chief Allen Onyeman of Air Peace; Captain Solomon Quianoo; and Chief Togbe Afede of Africa World Airlines (Aviation). Wolfgang Thome of eturbonews.com; and Jason Njoku of IROKO TV Nigeria (Tourism media); Najib Balala, Tourism Minister Kenya and CAF UNWTO President; Elcia Grandcourt, Africa Representative UNWTO (Seychelles); Alain St. Ange, former Minister of Tourism Seychelles; and Dr. Eriaka Bennett- Head of mission AU Diaspora office (Tourism administrators). Others are: Julie Dably Scott of Kenya Travel Business Executive (CWT); Femi Adefope of HRG, CWT, GHI, APG; Richard Akerele of Logistics and Airlines Support Services (ASL Newrest) and Taiwo Afolabi of SIFAX Airport Logistics (Tourism business) and Zainab Anseil of Zara Tours Tanzania; Uloma Egbuna of Tour Brokers International, Emirate Holidays, and Royal Carribean (Nigeria); and Amos Wekesa of Ugandan Tour Operator (Tour operations).