D espite drastic measures recently announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to push economic growth, the apex bank’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is likely to leave rates unchanged at the end of its two-day meeting tomorrow, analysts have said.  As part of its efforts to compel Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) to lend to the real sector, the CBN on July 3 announced that all lenders would be required to maintain a minimum Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) of 60% by September 30, 2019 but subject to quarterly review. The regulator emphasised that any DMB’s failure to meet the new minimum LDR by the specified date would result in a levy of additional Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) equal to 50% of the lending shortfall of the target LDR.   Also, on July 10, the CBN announced that as from July 11, it would cap the remunerable daily placements by DMBs at its Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) window at N2 billion (down from N7.5 billion).   It stated that while the N2 billion will be remunerated at the interest rate prescribed by the MPC from time to time, any deposit by a bank in excess of the N2 billion will not be remunerated.   Furthermore, only last Thursday, the CBN barred DMBs from buying Treasury bills for their own accounts at an open market auction, a move intended to force them to lend rather than invest in government debt.   Although having held the benchmark lending rate – the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) – at 14 per cent since July 2016, the CBN cut the MPR to 13.5 per cent at its MPC meeting in March to boost growth, it left the rates unchanged at its last rate meeting in May.   With inflation falling to 11.22 per cent in June from 11.40 per cent in May, coupled with the recent stiff measures introduced by the CBN to compel banks to lend to the real sector, analysts in some quarters, are expecting the MPC to cut the MPR to 13 per cent tomorrow.   However, Bloomberg reported at the weekend that analysts it polled are expecting the MPC to maintain status quo.   According to the news agency, the analysts believe that the CBN, “may wait to see the effect of new regulations, such as increasing lenders’ loan-to-deposit ratio, before it cuts borrowing costs further.”   It also reported chief economist for Africa and the Middle East at Standard Chartered Bank Plc., Razia Khan, as saying that with key central banks in sub-Saharan Africa voting on interest rates before the U.S. central bank makes its decision July 31, the Fed’s dovish stance means that for these regulators, there is “less pressure on tightening and even room for easing.”   The agency further stated that: “With central bank Governor Godwin Emefiele’s second term secure, inflation still well above the target range of 6% to 9% and possible price pressure coming from the 67% increase in the national minimum wage that lawmakers recently approved, all but one economist in aBloomberg survey forecast the rate will be kept unchanged on Tuesday.”