Royal Exchange Plc has notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), its shareholders and the investing public that the InsuResilience Investment Fund set up on behalf of the German government by KfW and managed by Swiss based Impact Investment Manager BlueOrchard Finance Limited, has concluded its processes to acquire a 39.25 per cent stake in Royal Exchange General Insurance Company Limited (REGIC). REGIC according to a statement, is one of the largest non-life insurance companies in Nigeria. Through its activities, the IIF is expected to reach out to more than 1 million Nigerian farmers by 2025. The investment has been approved by the regulator of REGIC, the National Insurance Commission. According to a statement obtained from the NSE, the IIF and REGIC have signed an agreement according to which the Fund will acquire a 39.25 per cent equity stake. REGIC, a subsidiary of Royal Exchange Plc, is a leading player in agriculture insurance. The proceeds of the investment will help REGIC to spur growth by increasing its risk capital and supporting its underwriting capacity in agriculture, hereby extending its outreach to low income farmers. “The history, team and commitment of REGIC to agriculture insurance make it a great addition to our portfolio. REGIC is uniquely positioned to capture the opportunity presented by 30 million under insured small scale farmers in Nigeria. We are thrilled to partner with and support REGIC with capital, technical assistance and our international network in the agriculture insurance space, with the objective to increase the resilience of small scale farmers to climate change”, says Ernesto Costa, Senior Vice-President Private Equity at BlueOrchard. “REGIC has entered into strategic alliances with various stakeholders in the agricultural space to drive insurance within that sector of the economy,” said Kenny Ezenwani Odogwu, Chairman of Royal Exchange Plc “Agriculture and retail insurance, we believe is the future of insurance and at Royal Exchange, we will continue to develop products and services to ensure that we remain relevant in this space. REGIC is determined to take advantage of growth initiatives available in the industry, while leveraging on technology to expand its revenue base and stronger bottom-line”.