Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) yesterday said 10 suspected Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) fighters were killed in Baga, after a failed attempt to invade troops’ location. Spokesperson for the MNJTF, Col. Timothy Antigha, who made the disclosure in a statement, said four out of the terrorists killed yesterday, were suicide bombers. He said: “What was meant to be a surprise dawn attack on Multinational Joint Task Force and national troops this morning became a nightmare for the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), as 10 of its terrorists met their waterloo in Baga. “Specifically, about 5.30a.m., ISWAP terrorists numbering about 30, infested troops’ defensive locality. However, vigilant troops spotted their approach and promptly thwarted what could have been an audacious assault. “In the process, 10 terrorists, including four suicide bombers were neutralised. Others escaped with gunshot wounds, as blood stained tracks were observed. Additionally, assorted arms and ammunition were impounded from other terrorists who fled in disarray. Unfortunately, a soldier paid the supreme while five others sustained varying injuries and have been evaluated for medical attention. “It must be reemphasised that the MNJTF, acting cohesively with national forces, will continue to pursue courses of action necessary for the achievement of its mandate in the Lake Chad Basin.” The Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) yesterday, announced the killing of 42 suspected Islamic State of West Arfica Province (ISWAP) fighters in a joint operation with "National Forces". Spokesperson for MNJTF, Col. Timothy Antigha, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the operation that culminated in the killing, was… In "News" The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) yesterday, said it deployed sufficient platforms between December 26 and 27, to repel attacks by suspected Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) on Baga, a major town in Borno State. To prove its claim, the NAF said it undertook 20 missions in 21 sorties, with a total… In "News" The Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) yesterday denied any recent attack on its troops and killing of 18 soldiers in its area of responsibility. Spokesman of the task force, Col. Timothy Antigha, said in a statement in Abuja, that online media report on the purported attack was false. The online… In "News"