A former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Chike Okafor, yesterday lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for choosing the member representing Ehime Mbano/Ihitte Uboma/Obowo Federal Constituency, Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba (APC, Imo), as the ministerial nominee for Imo State. Okafor in a statement shared on his Facebook page, described Nwajiuba’s nomination as a blessing to the people of Imo State, especially those from the Ehime Mbano/Ihitte Uboma/Obowo, Federal Constituency. The former lawmaker alongside his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), is currently in the Court of Appeal, seeking to nullify the judgement of the high court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which produced Nwajiuba of the Accord Party (AP) as the member representing Ehime Mbano/Ihite Uboma/Obowo Federal Constituency in Imo State. He, however, stressed the need for people from his constituency and state to support the ministerial nominee picked from the state. “I have always held strongly to the view that the sole purpose of holding political office, either appointive or elective is to bring development to the immediate constituency. If we are indeed passionate about the development of our constituency, we cannot but rejoice at any and every prospect that has the potential of accelerating development in Ehime Mbano/Ihiteuboma/Obowo Federal Constituency of Imo, fondly called Okigwe South Federal Constituency. “For this, I join the good people of Ehime Mbano/Ihitte Uboma/Obowo federal constituency and indeed the people of Imo State to congratulate our son, and brother, Hon. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, on his nomination as a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” the statement read in part. However, Okafor explained that he would press on with his case in the Court of Appeal, as he had a good case and his victory in the court means justice for the people. Recall that the Abuja division of the Court of Appeal on Wednesday, July 17, reserved judgement in the appeal brought by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Hon. Chike Okafor, seeking to nullify the judgement of the high court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which produced Emeka Nwajiuba of the Accord Party (AP) as a member representing Ehime Mbano/Ihite Uboma/Obowo Federal Constituency of Imo State. The three-man panel of the appellate court namely; Justice Adamu Jauro, Stephen Adah and Justice Wison Akomolafe, arrived at the decision after rejecting moves by Kingdom Okere, counsel for Emeka Nwajiuba, to terminate the appeal.