As part of measures towards enthroning good governance for her people, African countries must forge a united front on the recovery and return of assets from overseas. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo gave the charge yesterday in Abuja, at the 2019 African Union Anti-Corruption Day. Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay, aligned with the position of the vice president. The event tagged, “Towards A Common African Position On Asset Recovery”, was organised by the Independent Corrupt Practices And Other Related Offences Commission, in conjunction with the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), to brainstorm on “efficient assets recovery, return and management template” in Africa. In his keynote address, the vice president expressed worries that despite efforts by African leaders corruption “continues unabated”. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Mr. Dayo Apata, maintained that corruption undermined security, human rights and sustainable development. “Let me reiterated that today’s dialogue is very important because it is time for Africa to take a common stand on asset recovery, asset return and ensuring proper management of the recovered funds. “It is time for Africa to fight for all it has lost through bad leadership and mismanagement of public funds, which is detrimental to its citizens. “In reality, corruption undermines Africa’s security, generates huge economic damage and violates human rights”, Osinbajo submitted. Accordingly, the professor of law called for urgent action against the evil, saying failure would be detrimental to the achievement of sustainable development. He said: “This gives a sense of urgency to the fight against corruption, as failure to address corruption inhibits sustainable long term growth and undermines human development.” Meanwhile, the Federal Government has  decried the menace of illicit financial flows from Africa, which it said currently stands at about $90 billion. Chairman of the ICPC, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, gave the estimate in his welcome remarks presented by Hon. Obiora Igwedibia. According to Owasanoye:”The Anti-corruption day initiative became imperative because the negative impact of corruption on the continent’s economic development cannot be underestimated. “The worst-hit victims of the crimes of corruption remain the vulnerable poor and the marginalised individuals. “Indeed, a report of the High Level Panel on illicit financial flows from Africa…in 2015 put the amount of money leaving Africa through illicit flows at a staggering sum of USD50billion… “Sadly, this flow is now estimated at USD90bn, and is still growing.” Also speaking, Chairman of PACAC, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), regretted that the critical role of Assets Recovery in the fight against corruption was being underrated by the public. To underscore the importance and seriousness of assets recovery, Sagay stated that the development: “Deprives the looter of the fruits of his criminal endeavour with all the attendant risks. “The procedure increases the assets available to the state to prosecute its programme of good governance to the people”. Sagay concluded by saying that: “African States need to come together to establish a common procedure for demanding the return of such funds from foreign countries.” According to him: “Such a standard procedure once established will create a more conducive mindset in the receiving countries for the return of looted funds in their custody.”