The National Programme Coordinator, Vesico Vaginal Fistula (VVF), Federal Ministry of Health, Mrs. Ogunmayiwa Peters, has called for more funding to address the high rising cases of VVF related issues in the country saying that one hundred and fifty thousand women suffers from VVF annually. She made the call in an interview with newsmen at the end of a one month training of Doctors and Nurses on VVF surgery and management sponsored by the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) in collaboration with the Canadian government and the federal ministry of health which held at the VVF Center Ningi, Bauchi State. Mrs. Ogunmayiwa said that over 150, 000 women across the country suffer from VVF annually, however disclosed that, plans are in the pipeline to build more VVF centers across the country to increase access by patients. She added that a proposal for more funding was also forwarded with a high hope that it will soon be approved. Also speaking, the training program officer, Dr Musa Elisha said that the participants at the one month training were drawn from Bauchi and Sokoto States.  He said that during the training, over 50 VVF patients were treated free of charge adding that the free surgery and training were aimed at reducing the prevalence of VVF in the country which he said was at an alarming rate. Elisha said that the surgeries of the 50 patients were also sponsored by the UNFPA in collaboration with the Canadian Government and the Federal Ministry of Health. According to him, besides the 150,000 VVF cases nationwide, there is an increase of between 20,000 annually which, he said, must be reduced urgently. He however disclosed that, despite the efforts being put in place, the number of increase in the cases far exceeded the number of women being treated through corrective surgery which he said was a little over 4000. Dr Elisha added that, the UNFPA is also addressing the underlying socio-cultural factors that remained the major predisposing factors of having VVF among women. The Chief Medical Director (CMD)  VVF Center, Ningi,  Dr Nasiru Umar Ibrahim said that over 1000 patients have been treated at the center in the last five years with an average of about 200 patients annually. He added that, patients come to the center for treatment from other states across the country as well as neighbouring countries.