The Editor-in-chief of Order Paper newspaper, Mr. Oke Epia, who was yesterday quizzed by the police at the National Assembly Division, has been granted bail.    Epia, who honoured the police invitation over an alleged false publication in his publication was interrogated at the National Assembly Presidential Gate police station by detectives.   Journalists, who visited to know what was happening to their colleague including officials of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Abuja Council and the FCT Correspondents’ Chapel were politely asked to remain outside until interrogation was concluded. After being with the police for many hours, he was eventually granted bail.  It would be recalled that the police in a letter dated July 26 had invited him to appear at the National Assembly police station. Without further information on the complaint, the letter noted that the gesture to Mr. Epia is a fact-finding invitation.   Epia had in a statement, however, averred that the invitation was part of attacks on his  media house by Hon. Tony Nwulu, a former member of the House of Representatives.  The relationship with the former legislator started after a publication prior to the 2019 general elections. The social media post profiled members of the House of Representatives vying for either governorship or deputy governorship positions.   In profiling Nwulu, Order Paper said it reached out to the lawmaker to account for ‘missing funds and projects for Zonal Intervention Projects in the 2016 budget, a claim he is yet to respond to.’ In his reaction on Twitter, Mr. Nwulu branded the newspaper as fake, alleging that it never made an assessment of his stewardship. “Fake medium. No sensible person should take you guys serious. Tribal bigots. At least, your faceless promoters should try running for office and effect the change the desire and not just being pathetic armchair critics hiding under a useless medium to extort,” he tweeted on his handle @tonynwulu. In a statement last Friday, Epia raised an alarm that he and his colleagues have received threats to their lives.