Miffed by what he termed as apparent neglect of the state by the Federal Government, the Cross River Governor, Senator Ben Ayade has demanded the return of the state’s 76 oil wells ceded to Akwa Ibom State in 2012 following the ruling of the Supreme Court.  This was as he also described the ruling as ‘unconscionable injustices’ meted out to the state by the Federal Government, listing the ceding of Bakassi Peninsula to Cameroon, the ceding of the state’s 76 oil wells and the non-reimbursement of the funds the state spent on repair of federal roads, as some unfair treatments to the state.  The governor disclosed this when the Commander of the Joint Military Task Force, code-named Operation Delta Safe (ODS), Rear Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade, visited him at the Government House. According to the governor, the ceding of the oil-rich peninsula was illegal, and therefore, the loss of oil wells was an act of gross injustice.  “Even the implementation of the Supreme Court judgement that stated clearly that Cross River must continue to enjoy stabilisation support in perpetuity for the loss of oil well has since been stopped. We are tired and so we want our oil wells back,” Ayade declared. Also, the governor deplored the refusal by the Federal Government to admit members of a militant group, the Bakassi Strike Force into its amnesty programme after the state government facili tated the surrender of their arms to the military.  The governor also expressed displeasure that the federal government is yet to reimburse the state for interventions on federal roads, when other states had since been reimbursed, however, appealed with President Muhammadu Buhari to assist the state in its survival and to realise its projects, including the Bakassi Deep Seaport and the 274km superhighway.  He said: “It was even at the instance of your own (military) request that we came to the ultimate conclusion that we needed to grant amnesty. Sadly, shortly after the disarmament and demobilisation exercise, the burden therefrom rests wholly on the shoulders of Cross River State. Now as you are moving into the rehabilitation and reintegration phase, we are being called upon to provide the financial support for it to be achieved.  “Let me send you a message to the National Security Adviser (NSA) and indeed Mr. President, to tell him that the people of Cross River State are watching with keen interest how other people who were granted amnesty in other states are now the responsibilities of Federal Government, and how our own people have been allowed to gradually regress to embrace peace.  “Not even one person from the entire list has been taken by the Federal Government for any form of amnesty programme, nor has a dime been paid to any of them.  What has Cross River done wrong in this country? Please send this message to Mr. President that we want to know what Cross River has done wrong, particularly now that you have noticed that some camps are coming back to live again after the disarmament and demobilization.”