The Helpline Foundation for the Needy, recently organised an empowerment programme for women to mark this year’s International Widows Day. CALEB ONWE reports  The International Widows’ Day was introduced by the United Nations in 2010 and observed on June 23rd every year, as a platform to address poverty and injustice faced by widows and their children in many countries.
This year’s celebration elicited mixed reactions from about 200 widows selected from the six Area Councils within the Federal Capital Territory, as they were being trained on how to be become economically empowered.
They were trained on different skills, such as soap making and production of detergents and skincare products.
The Helpline Foundation for the Needy, organisers of the programme, said the widows’ training scheme was to help them to be self-reliant and also contribute to the nation’s economic growth.
President of Organization, Dr. Jumai Ahmadu, said that International Widows’ Day is one of the well thought out programmes of the United Nations to encourage people to work towards protecting the rights of widows to decent livelihood.
Ahmadu, who noted that widows and women in general faced violence, discrimination and poverty and several societal vices, also called on stakeholders to come up with programmes and policies that would address these challenges in Nigeria.
Speaking on this year’s theme: “Developing Resources and Policies to Empower Widows”, Ahmadu said there was an urgent need to provide special training for these women in order to make them self-reliant.
“We as a group understand that to lose a partner in life cannot be expressed in words, how he or she felt. Several women around the world after losing their life partner face challenges and do long-term struggle for basic needs, their human right and dignity.
“We equally understand that in some societies, widows face challenges such as denied inheritance rights to the piece of land, forced into unwanted marriages, unimagined widowhood rituals, forced to leave her husband’s home among other obnoxious rituals. Widows, children also face several problems like they are withdrawn from the school and are more vulnerable to abuse,” she said.
A number of the widows wept for joy during the ceremony as they expressed appreciation to the organisers of the training programme and urged the government to support them in their efforts to alleviate the sufferings of the less privileged.
One of the widows, Mrs. Afinike Whatley, said the widows’ outpour of emotion was out of gratitude to God and the organization that had given them the opportunity of benefiting from the training scheme for over 10 years now.
Whatley appealed on behalf of other widows to the government to support genuine non governmental organisations to tackle challenges facing widows in the society.