The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has warned the newly recruited marshals against extortion and bribe-taking during patrols. Mr Kabir Lawal, Deputy Corps Marshal in-charge of training, gave the warning at the Passing Out Parade (POP) of the 2019 set of Marshal Inspectors Cadre in Jos on Monday.  According to him, the corps will not spare any personnel caught extorting money or taking bribe from motorists. Lawal said that FRSC had put in place stringent measures to tackle the menace within the system, adding that many of its personnel were sacked because of “the unwholesome practice”.  “We have told newly recruited marshals during the training that any of one caught taking bribe or extorting drivers on highways is doing it at his own risk. “We all know there are bad eggs in FRSC, but if you are caught collecting bribe, that will be the end of your career.  “It is against the ethics of the corps and we shall not hesitate to sanction any of you who involve his or herself in such unacceptable act,” he warned. Lawal noted that the corps was doing all within its power to expunge all “bad eggs” within it’s ranks. “For so long, I have been chairman of the disciplinary committee at our headquarters, and I can tell you that majority of these newly recruited are replacement to those that have been sacked for various misconducts.  “So, FRSC has zero tolerance for corruption because that has over time dented the image of the corps. “We are working assiduously, and with the cooperation of the members of the public, to ensure corruption doesn’t fair part of our daily lies,” he added. Lawal called on the newly recruited personnel to be committed to ensuring an accident-free environment in the areas they would be posted to. In his address of welcome, Mr Imenbvore Ojemeren, the Commandant of the FRSC Training School Jos, said 893 marshal inspectors passed out after a successful sixmonth basic course training at the school. Ojemeren, who said that the training of the marshals began in June 2018, thanked them for enduring the tortuous and painstaking exercise.