…claims police in connivance in petition to Task Force on land grabbers  Members of the Ogunde family in Agbowa-Ikosi in the Ejirin, Epe axis of Lagos State have called on the Lagos State Government and well-meaning Nigerians to come to their aid due to what they termed an invasion of their ancestral land by land grabbers and hoodlums. In a petition signed by their lawyer, Bayo Omoniyi & Co., sent to the coordinator of the task force and copied to the office of Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, the family alleged a take-over of their land in Atere by an alleged land grabber known as Sir K and ably assisted by a powerful Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) leader. “That sometimes in 2005, one Sir K invaded the Town and forcibly ejected our clients who had to flee to adjoining towns and villages because their homeland had been turned into a theatre of war. “That because our clients cannot challenge them because of the cache of arms in their possession, our clients had to go to court by instituting an action against their principals at the Ikorodu Division of the Lagos High Court in suit No. IKJ/54/13, Pa David B. Odumeru Ogunde & 4 others vs Mr Nojeem Oduyero Ojupon & 16 others,” the petition reads. The petitioners allege further that despite a court order delivered on May 20, 2019, which gave a perpetual injunction against the invaders and in favour of his clients, an OPC leader and the said Sir K imported more hoodlums to the land to ensure the plaintiffs never return to the land measuring approximately 389.498 hectares, the thugs and land grabbers seem to have become even more emboldened. At a press briefing in Lagos yesterday addressed by the family’s secretary, MrNurudeen Ogunde and the head of the family, Pa David B. Ogunde and other family members, the family quoted the ruling delivered by Hon. Justice L.B Lawal-Akapo. “The Ojupon family came upon our ancestral land in Atere, Agbowa-Ikosi sometime in 2009, and now we are battling land grabbers on two fronts. Apart from the Ojupon family, there is another family called the Akerele family which used to be our slaves historically, that is the other family that has been trespassing on our land and it was so bad that they attacked each other physically while the case was going on.“And we learnt that they took the matter to Oodua People’s Congress and the land was divided for the two families who were busy fighting each other over the land that belongs to none of them while we were in court,”Nurudeen began on a matter that began 10 years ago but about which a case was filed in 2014 and judgment granted two months ago. “It is so bad that they went after all of us, looking for us to kill us after invading the land with dangerous weapons and threatening our wives and children after the men of the house ran away for dear lives. Up till now, the situation persists as Sir K has since stationed hoodlums working on their behalf on our land.