The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has said it is investigating some telecom operators, banks and fintech operators over allegation of breach of the country’s data protection regulation.
The Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR) was issued last January to stem the tide of wanton abuse of data privacy and improve the global image of the Nigerian business environment. However, the Director General of NITDA, Dr. Isa Pantami, in a statement, said some of the organisations under investigations had been reported to be violating the rule. Aside the private operators, the DG said the Agency is also investigating the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) for alleged violation of the NDPR.
Highlighting efforts to sensitise Nigerians on the regulation, the DG said the Agency had used all available media to communicate and sensitise the people. “The Agency has also written articles, made paper presentations and facilitated public and privately organised fora for the purpose of deepening compliance with the NDPR. We are happy to say that Nigerians and non-Nigerians have taken note of the NDPR as evidenced by over 400 phones calls and numerous email enquiries being received and treated daily,” he said.
“The Agency had gone further to prepare a detailed draft Data Protection Implementation Framework and made it available on its website for inputs from the general public. The Framework details expectations from every stakeholder. Furthermore, a sample Privacy Policy is attached to guide government agencies and the private sector on compliance with the NDPR,” the DG explained.
While re-assuring Nigerians that their data would be protected, the DG said: “We therefore wish to assure all Nigerians that NITDA is willing, able and ready to implement the NDPR with the ultimate aim of ensuring compliance and making businesses and government work better for every Nigerian”.
NITDA is saddled with the responsibilities of implementing the Nigerian Information Technology Policy as well as coordinate general IT development and regulation in the country. Specifically, Section 6(a, b & m) of the Act establishing the Agency mandates it to create a framework for the planning, research, development, standardization, application, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and regulation of Information Technology practices, activities and systems in Nigeria.