Telecommunications operators in the country have called for intervention fund from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to help the sector bridge existing infrastructure gap over the next 10 years. This, they said, became imperative in the face of dwindling foreign investments in the sector and the difficulty in securing loans from commercial banks. Over the last four years, Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) in the telecoms sector have been on steady decline according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). In the first quarter of this year, for instance, FDIs in the sector nosedived by 81 per cent to $32.3 million, compared with $176.4 million recorded in the same period last year. The operators, who channelled their request from the CBN through the Nigerian Communications (NCC) at the 5th Telecom Executives and Regulators Forum (TERF) held in Lagos yesterday, said the country may not progress beyond the current state, if there is no government intervention. They added that funds required to bridge infrastructure gap in the country are beyond the capacity of private investors. While investments in the country’s ICT sector so far is put at $70 billion, the telcos said the country would require double that amount in the next 10 years to be able to get all Nigerians connected to the Internet and join other countries that are currently building 5G networks. 5G is the latest generation of networks for fast speed Internet and it is currently being deployed in developed countries, while the operators in Nigeria are currently able to roll out 4G only in major cities. Speaking at the forum, Chief Operating Officer of Broadbased Communications, Chidi Ibisi, said CBN currently has several intervention funds on single digit interest rate for critical sectors of the economy that contribute to creation of jobs, but there is none for the ICT sector. “ICT impacts every single sector, we are enablers to the achievement of MDGs. NCC should help us to make presentations to the CBN to extend intervention funds to ICT,” he said. “We are talking about 70 per cent broadband penetration as the next target; that is not going to happen because there is no money to deploy the infrastructure. We are getting loans from banks at 22 per cent interest rate in a sector that requires low interest rate for development.” Corroborating this, the Chief Executive Officer, Pan African Towers Limited, Mr. Wole Abu, said aside the CBN intervention, government should also come up with policy that will encourage pension managers to invest in the ICT sector. He added that the government would also need to address current challenge of power and security. “If there is constant power supply, we can invest the billions of naira we are spending on powering generators on more infrastructure,” he said. Also speaking, the Managing Director of Bitflux Communications, Mr. Lekan Balogun, said while government alone cannot provide the funds needed for the infrastructure, it has to create an enabling environment that would attract foreign investors to the sector. “To get fund from outside the country, there must be assurance to the investors that they can easily take their money back,” he said. The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, who set the tone for the forum with his opening address, noted that the current $70 billion investment in the sector is huge, “but it is by no means adequate for one of the fastest growing telecommunications markets in the world.” Danbatta, who was represented by the Commission’s Director, Policy Competition & Economic Analysis, Mr. Mohammed Babajika, said the capital intensity of the industry and the need for service providers to increase their infrastructure deployment to satisfy the ever-increasing demand, means that there has to be two-fold increase in investments in the next decade. He said this is necessary because there are still about 40 million Nigerians that are yet to be reached with basic ICT infrastructure and services. The EVC, however, noted that the Commission’s roadmap for broadband has created new frontiers for investment, adding that the desire for investment in the sector will continue to grow as the size of the network increases.