Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday, said it was in receipt of a Vessel, MV MESSIAH 1, and Barge MIRACLE, arrested over alleged involvement in illegal oil bunkering in the Brass Terminal, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The Acting Head of Media and Publicity of the EFCC, Mr. Tony Orilade, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the vessel and barge were each laden with 500,000 litres of products suspected to be illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), otherwise known as diesel. Orilade added that suspects were being investigated in connection with illegal oil bunkering. According to him, the suspects and platforms were handed over to the Commission’s zonal office in Port Harcourt by the Nigerian Navy. He said: “The Nigerian Navy, through the Forward Operating Base, FORMOSO, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Tuesday, July 2, 2019 handed over a Vessel, MV MESSIAH 1 and Barge MIRACLE arrested for illegal oil bunkering to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Port Harcourt’s Zonal Office, for further investigation and possible prosecution. “The Vessel and Barge were arrested by the Operation Delta Safe’s patrol team at the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC), Brass Terminal, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on March 22, 2019. “The Naval Handing Over Officer, Captain Suleiman Dantosho Ibrahim, said that both MV MESSIAH and Barge MIRACLE were each laden with 500,000 litres of products suspected to be illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO). “Principal Detective Superintendent, Shehu Jibrilla, who received the Vessel and Barge on behalf of the EFCC, assured the Navy of their diligent investigation and possible prosecution. “The Zonal Office has commenced investigations of seven suspected oil thieves and two barges alleged to be involved in illegal oil bunkering.” Orilade gave the names of the suspects as Goerge John, Friday Kesiye, Longlife Adam Nanadighe, Ofuegbe Lukcy, Clement Abogha, Lawrence Brownson Kinanec and Kenneth Monday. According to him, the barges are Barge KOME XVIII (propelled by Tug LADY VIRTUE) and Barge NICHOLAS MARINE (propelled by MV AYE). He said: “The suspects were arrested by the patrol team of Nigerian Navy, Forward Operating Base, FORMOSO, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State on May 18, 2019 and handed over to the EFCC, Port Harcourt’s Zonal Office on Tuesday, July 2, 2019. “According to the Naval Handing Over Officer, Captain Suleiman Dantosho Ibrahim, the two barges were each conveying 500 metric tons of products suspected to be illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), without necessary authorisation. Four of the suspects were on board Barge KOME XVIII and the other three suspects were on board Barge NICHOLAS MARINE when they were arrested.”