A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Hope for Life Initiative, recently gathered widows to mark the International Day for Widows (IDW) all around the world. The event, with the theme: ‘Uplifting the Invincible Woman,’ was put together to commemorate the IDW 2019. It was held on June 23 at Town Hall, Ikorodu, Lagos. IDW is a United Nations (UN)-ratified day of action to address the “poverty and injustice faced by millions of widows and their dependents in many countries”. Hope for Life Initiative, founded by Kendi Aig-Imoru, in pursuant to this objective, has since inception, provided a platform for improving the quality of life of children and widows, while creating an avenue for the widows to network with local and international bodies, government and co-operate organisation for positive interaction. Speaking at the event, Aig-Imoru disclosed that the vision of the day was born out of her passion to reach out to the less privileged widows and children through mentorship and empowerment programmes to reduce and alleviate the suffering and hardship some widows go through day by day. She expressed her excitement at seeing the success of the project which was ultimately to put smiles on the faces of the widows, children and less privileged in the society, a cause that has been on for eight years now. Some of the participants equally gave their testimony about the support the initiative has provided. Among them was a widow and co-ordinator for widows, Mrs. Motayo Deborah Abdullahi, who spoke extensively on the care and encouragement Hope For Life Initiative brought to them. She expressed joy and happiness over the success of the day, but also called for more support from corporate organisations and the government to do more and show support for the widows living in the society. She equally used the opportunity to encourage and advise her fellow widows not to lose hope and keep faith in God. Among those present at the event were the Chairman of Isawo Local Council Development, Adeleke Abdulaziz (an engineer), who expressed happiness at meeting the widows, and Rev Adediran Adesegun, a landlord and resident of Isawo community. Others present include entrepreneurs and businessmen who promise to show support to the widows. The event ended on a high note as food items, gifts, and other necessities were distributed to the widows with lots of words of encouragement to boost morale.