Leadership crisis rocking the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) worsened yesterday as two factional executives emerged with one led by Col. Dansaaki Agbede and the other being championed by its Secretary, Dr. Kunle Olajide. There was a heavy security yesterday at the group’s office in Bodija, Ibadan when Olajide summoned a meeting where a seven-member executive led by retired Justice Ademola Bakre was unanimously voted to replace interim executive put in place last year by Agbede. While the meeting lasted under the watch of about 20 policemen, New Telegraphobserved that some known faces among the members were conspicuously absent. Those absent included Col. Agbede,  Elder Ayorinde Ojebode, Chief Jibade Oyekan, Dr Rasaki Siyanbola, Chief Anthony Merayebu, Prof Adetoun Ogunseye, Chief Mike Omoleye, Chief Adegboye Onigbinde and others as well as the chairmen of Oyo, Osun and Ondo States. Reacting to the development, however, Agbede described the emergence of another executive as “mother of all jokes,” adding that they had no credibility and the purportedly elected person from Ogun State, the same state where the late President, Chief Idowu Sofola (SAN) hailed from was an injustice which could not stand. Agbede said:  “They are not serious people. Funnily, the purported newly-elected president had initially conceded the position to me. Both the said new president and Prof. Oluwasanmi have surreptitiously been disturbing the council. “The convener of the meeting who has been suspended as the YCE Secretary lacked the legal backing to call the meeting in the first instance. “Even, if not on suspension, a Secretary cannot call a meeting without the permission of the President. So, whatever might have been said to have been done remains illegal, null and void and of no effect. “Proper National Executive Council meeting holds next week during which proper reaction to the theatre of absurd will be made.” But while reading a nine-point communiqué issued at the end of the meeting which produced new executives, Olajide said “the YCE thanks all our compatriots and well-wishers who through phone calls and visits expressed concern about the unconstitutional suspension of the council’s Secretary-General. “It was a storm in a tea cup. The council most especially appreciates the diaspora UK/USA chapter of the YCE for showing grave concern as to travel home to participate in the healing process. The council assures all Nigerians that the storm is over and the organization is fully restored to continue to contribute to nation building.”