Osun State Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, has declared that local government councils in his state operate freely without interference. Similarly, Oyetola has asked the state university to embark on creative and innovative research that can drive the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) base of the state to enviable height. Speaking when he hosted the delegation of the Local Government Project Monitoring Team from the Office of the Secretary to the Governor of the Federation (SGF) at the Government House in Osogbo, Oyetola said it would be unfair for any governor not to allow elected chairmen at the Local Government Councils to decide what they want in terms of human, capital and infrastructure development. He described local government councils as a critical arm that should work to deliver development to the people. He said: “I believe in the functionality of local government administration. That is why we have given all the local governments and the Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) the independence to operate. “To me, it is unfair for any governor not to allow people at the local government to decide what they want. We believe in transparency, accountability and probity that is why our administration has ensured that the resources of the local governments are not interfered with. “We have given our Councils free-hand to operate and decide their affairs. We don’t toy with the administration of our local government because we believe so much in development. So, we thank you for finding it necessary to visit our state and for seeing things yourselves. “We appreciate all your encomiums and commendations on our little efforts to develop the state, we are glad that our passion for grassroots development has been confirmed.” Leader of the delegation of the Department State/Local Government Affairs Political and Economic Office, office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Kayode Adegbayo, lauded the administration of Governor Oyetola for taking leadership to the grassroots. He said: “What we have seen in terms of development across the local governments and LCDAs visited has shown that a round peg is in the round hole. “What we have seen shows that the governor is focused and he is not distracted by the litigation that was just put to rest few weeks ago by the Supreme Court. “So, I want to encourage the local government leadership to do much in improving their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR).” Meanwhile, Oyetola, who spoke on the revenue profile of the state during a visit by the Osun State University Governing Council led by its Chairman, Mallam Yusuf Ali (SAN), said the role of the institution in the development of the state was very crucial. Oyetola said: “The University should be creative and innovative to generate revenue for the State. You are not doing badly but you should do more and work with government to increase our IGR.” His remarks followed a plethora of demands from government by the university, including reinstatement of its annual subvention from the state, construction of the access roads in the campuses, governor’s presence at the 8th Convocation ceremonies holding in September and his assistance in getting Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to deliver the 8th Convocation Lecture. The governor said: “I thank the Governing Council under the leadership of Yusuf Ali (SAN) for the good handling of the University. I also want to thank the entire Council members for maintaining standard in everything you do. “As for your demands, the government will start supporting full payment of salaries when the finances of the state improve. Funding the university is subject to availability of money. Let us work together to boost our revenue base. The access roads to the campuses will be looked into, to see if the state can take them up.” On the convocation, the Governor said the Vice President had already indicated his willingness to honour the invitation to deliver the 8th Convocation Lecture of the University. “I understand the issue of the University Teaching Hospital which is on course. I want to commend the university and thank the Chancellor, Dr. Folorunso Alakija, for sticking to her promise of delivering in two years. I thank everyone as we look forward to the convocation on 21st September, 2019,” he stated.