Defence Headquarters (DHQ) yesterday disclosed that between May and July 78 bandits were killed in the ongoing operations in the North-West. It also noted that within the period under review, 50 kidnap victims held at different locations, were rescued by troops of ‘Operation Hadarin Daji.’  The Acting Director of Defence Information, Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu, disclosed this at a press conference in Abuja. Nwachukwu said at least 25 suspected bandits were arrested during the operations.  According to him, the joint operation was ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “The Defence Headquarters on 10 May 2019, reorganised ‘Operation Sharan Daji,’ which was launched to curtail banditry, kidnapping and other sundry crimes within Zamfara State and its environ. The new operation was reorganised and reinvigorated with the acquisition and injection of new platforms and additional manpower.  “It will suffice to mention that in the last two months, since the commencement of the joint operations, the gallant troops of Operation Hadaran Daji have, in series of successful encounters, rescued over 50 kidnapped victims and neutralised about 78 bandits from various fortified enclaves in Zamfara and contiguous states.  “Additionally, over 25 suspected bandits were arrested and 14 motorcycles recovered from them. The bandits are currently undergoing preliminary investigations, after which they will be handed over to appropriate prosecuting agencies.”  Nwachukwu attributed the successes recorded to the reorganisation of the operations into a joint force by the Defence Headquarters. According to him, these operations were launched in compliance with the strategic directive by the Commanderin- Chief of the Armed Forces, President Buhari, to effectively tackle the spate of security challenges confronting some states in the North-West.  He noted that the DHQ, after careful evaluation of the security situation, reinvigorated its anti-banditry operations with the launch of Operation Hadarin Daji (OPHD) and Joint Task Force Operation Thunder Strike (JTF OPTS). Nwachukwu, who said that the reorganisation was already yielding results, said that the joint troops of Operation Hadaran Daji had recorded several significant achievements in the theatre of operations.  He added: “On the realisation that bandits were generating financial resources through cattle rustling to fund their criminality, troops of OPHD also embarked on anti-cattle rustling operations, which led to the interception and stalling of cattle rustling activities.”