With the return of President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term in office following his victory at the February 23 Presidential election, it is time to turn to the serious issue of governance. The President must hit the ground running, he must constitute his cabinet quickly. It is unclear whether he will still keep faith with his old ministers or will appoint new ones but what is clear however is that during valedictory for the erstwhile ministers, Buhari had only words of praise for them. He told them to be proud of being part of his administration. Although too much shouldn’t be read into this unqualified pass mark, the belief is rife that many of the ex-ministers will likely return. And this is a sore point with many observers of the Buhari administration in the last four years. A cursory assessment of many of the ex-ministers will reveal a below average performance. This makes it imperative for new faces to be brought into the Federal Executive Council (FEC). It goes without saying that injecting fresh blood into the FEC is likely to energise government business; so Buhari will do well to give this a serious thought. However, the critical point is to make up his cabinet quickly. The unusually long time he took to pick his ministers in his first term, to say the least, not only slowed down government business, it also provided detractors ready fodder for criticism. Unfortunately, a surface reading of the situation doesn’t suggest that things will be different this time. The upshot of this is that speculation is widespread in the country regarding those the president will pick to help him actualise his dream for Nigeria in the next four years and the time frame he will carry out this important task. However, we want to implore the president to have a broad view of this duty. He can’t afford to limit himself to only those he knows. He must scour the world for competent compatriots who can help him deliver dividends of democracy to longsuffering Nigerians who have kept faith with him. And this must be done without prejudice to party, ethnic or religious considerations. Thankfully, Nigeria is blessed with men and women of proven competence and integrity and the responsibility lies with the president to find them wherever they may be in the world and bring them in. Thankfully, Buhari alluded to this in his Democracy Day speech on June 12. The president said: “Over the next four years, we are committed to assembling a strong team of Nigerians and allies to implement our transformative plans and proposals. We will see significant focus, resource and, where necessary reform, in tertiary and technical education to reposition Nigeria’s workforce for the modern technological age. “We will accelerate investments in primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare programmes, interventions and infrastructure as well as in upgrading of our medical personnel to stem the flight of our best-trained people… My optimism about Nigeria’s future is unshaken and Nigeria’s role in the world as an emerging economic force is without a doubt.” We agree totally with these inspiring words from the president and hope that he matches actions with words in the weeks, months and years ahead. We also want to emphasise the fact that Buhari has a rare chance to heal Nigeria and put it firmly on the path of national unity and cohesion. The electioneering preceding the general election were divisive and conflict-ridden. The belligerent posture of politicians was obvious to even the most casual observer of the Nigerian political space and fears were expressed not only from within but by the international community. Now that that phase is in the past, President Buhari must begin the arduous task of healing and bringing the people together irrespective of tribe, religion or party affiliations. In this regard, we must point out the view in many quarters that the president didn’t particularly play the role of a unifier with distinction in his first term in office. A significant segment of the population didn’t feel Buhari performed to expectation as far as rallying the country in one direction was concerned. This was particularly obvious in his appointments. Appointments to key positions in government were heavily skewed in favour of one section of the country – the North. And since the president is from that part, the natural feeling was that the president was biased towards his section. It is difficult to discountenance the argument of those who took this view as the evidence was overwhelming. So, Buhari must be completely detribalised in his appointments and actions this time. Finally, President Buhari is in a privileged position to change the fortunes of Nigerians and take them to the next level as he has promised repeatedly. But in achieving this task, there is the need to focus on the future without a distracting and undue fixation on the past. The time to blame the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), government party since the return to democracy in 1999, is over. This is the time for action, Mr. President. 