A former governor of Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola, yesterday, said that he would recommend imposition of heavy taxation on wealthy Nigerians as a means of raising the country’s revenue base. Aregbesola expressed this view when he appeared before the Senate in plenary in the ongoing ministerial screening. He said that if his nomination as a minister was confirmed by the Senate, he would introduce what he termed “privilege taxes” for those who have huge resources in the country, but were either currently not paying or under paying. His word: “If confirmed, I will advocate for a just taxation system that will bridge the inequality in the system. I am a federalist and there is a limit to what we can do on taxation as a nation. “We have left the rich men in Nigeria without allowing them to discharge their responsibilities to the citizens, particularly on taxation. I’m going to pioneer privilege taxes for those who have huge resources or wealth on which Nigerians must tap. “If I go into details, there could be some ill feelings in some quarters. I will recommend serious taxation for wealthy people in Nigeria. If that will now translate into lifting the burden on the states and the local government councils to reduce their penchant for taxes that made poor people pay from their inadequate resources, I would have been satisfied.” On controversies that trailed salary payment under his administration in Osun State, Aregbesola said the misinformation about the salary situation when he was governor for eight years was either caused by deliberate mischief or people who were ignorant of the actual situation of things then. He explained that he stopped the disparity in the payment of salaries in the Osun State in July 2018 before the expiration of his tenure in November. “The narrative on the issue of salary payment in Osun State is either mischievous or based on ignorance. Nobody can pretend that the Nigerian economy did not suffer a huge downfall from 2014 until when the current administration came in with some palliative to support the states. “Osun State was hugely affected because we had invested heavily on infrastructure that was totally neglected before. Personnel cost alone was 63 per cent of my total income then. Osun State civil service population is huge and top heavy. Whereas levels one to seven that constitute 73 per cent of the civil servants take less than N1 billion, the fat cats in levels eight and above, were less than 30 per cent of the civil servants, but take over N2 billion. “I was therefore forced to do interesting balancing short of retrenchment. I had to constitute a panel under the leadership of Comrade Hassan Sunmonu to monitor all revenue income of the state and apportion whatever is left to salaries, which was done innovatively. “We knew that officers on levels one to seven and pensionrers cannot even survive on their salaries if we didn’t pay their full salaries. We never owed anybody on levels one to seven a dime. “For officers on levels eight to 10, they earned 75 per cent of their salaries throughout my tenure which ended in July 2018. We stopped all forms of partial payment to anybody in July 2018 and I left office in November 2018. It was only those officers on levels 12 and above that had to earn 50 per cent of their salaries between July 2015 and July 2018,” he explained.