Pan-African 4GLTE telecommunications group, Smile Telecoms, has formally entered into a partnership with Skyroam Simo, the world’s leading mobile Platform as a Service (PaaS) company providing global data access services.
The partnership according to a statement, is expected to enable more Africa mobile users to seamlessly connect to the best 4GLTE mobile network with improved coverage, faster speed, and more flexible plans.
Explaining what informed the partnership, Smile’s Group CEO, Ahmad Farroukh, stated, “Smile is a leading 4GLTE carrier in Africa and we are always open to new and innovative technologies to bring continued value add and benefits to our users. Our partnership with Skyroam SIMO will leverage its leading position in global virtual SIM platform and together bring the best service and value to our pan-African users.”
Farroukh added that SIMO App emerged at the right time to bring access and affordability to mobile data for millions of Africans struggling with expensive Internet prices that keep them out of the market entirely. “Skyroam SIMO and its unique Virtual-eSIM technology can deliver seamless 4G data connection to any user automatically switch to the best 4G network nearby, ensuring the best reliability and speed,” he said.
In addition to creating a new way to access data for consumers, the Smile CEO said Skyroam SIMO would help carriers to develop their market at nearly “zero” cost by improving the efficiency of acquiring new customers, to ease the hassle of traditional sales channels, and to drive more value by improving the relationship with their customers. “This partnership between Smile and SIMO will enable more Smile users to leverage Skyroam’s platform of over 135 countries and 200 mobile networks with best coverage and speed, is a big leap forward amongst Africa operators,” Farroukh added.
Commenting on the partnership, Founder and CEO of Skyroam, Jing Liu, said: “Skyroam Simo will work with Smile Telecom, a great partner who continue to bring value to its users as a long term strategy, together we will meet the needs of more people in Africa and bring explosive growth in mobile data usage. We will continue to innovate together with leading partners around the world to meet the demands of users where mobile data is becoming a must-have that impact our daily lives.”
The partnership also gives International customers from various countries in the world that use Skyroam devices the opportunity to roam on Smile 4GLTE network in all countries of Smile presence.