In all spheres of life, Nigerians are very difficult to please.  The 32nd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations ended on Friday (yesterday) in Egypt with the final match between Senegal and Algeria. They earned the berth on merit because they were the best two in the competition while Senegal are the current number one country in the rankings of the world football body, FIFA. The Super Eagles lost 2-1 in the ssemi-final 1but many followers of the game believe they should have gone all the way to emerge the champions.  Against a well-organised Algerian team, Eagles struggled and conceded a late freekick to give the North Africans a ticket to the final. Nigeria eventually settled for the bronze after beating Tunisia 1-0 in the Third Place match. It is important to stress that strong countries like Morocco, Egypt, Cote d Ivoire, Ghana, Mali and Cameroon did not make it to the last four stage.  In fact Cameroon, the defending champions, lost to Nigeria in the second round while South Africa eliminated hot favourites, Egypt, also in the second round. For the 2015 and 2017 editions of the competition, the Eagles failed to qualify. So much has been said on the performances of Gernot Rohr and the Eagles in Egypt but it is sad that many believe the only result Nigeria deserves in AFCON was the first position. How?  The current Eagles team is an emerging team yet to blossom and that is why the expected cohesion was not there. In the first two games, the Eagles struggled and were lucky to have beaten Burundi and Guinea. In the knock out games against Cameroon and South Africa, the team did very well with the 3-2 win over the Lions and the 2-1 win over Bafana Bafana. It was a different issue against Algeria because the Foxes were better overall. The three strikers upfront interchanged to confuse defenders and there was no hiding place for the Eagles.  Only an element of luck could have made the encounter go the other way. Before the competition, there were issues raised about the goalkeeping department and this manifested at the AFCON. Francis Uzoho, the country’s number one at the World Cup in Russia, became number three at AFCON but Daniel Akpeyi is not better. The three keepers lacked the quality of a great number one like Vincent Enyeama, Peter Rufai and a host of others.  The defenders too were barely average considering the kind of goals conceded through schoolboy errors. The free-kick Riyad Mahrez scored in the semi-final was a result of poor defending. The ball should have been cleared better to avoid the free-kick. In defending it, Akpeyi was behind his defenceline and the other side was free for Mahrez. In the midfield, Alex Iwobi tried his best but it was evident that the team needed more creativity to flourish better. Wilfred Ndidi and Oghenekaro Etebo did well generally but they did not help in creating chances for the strikers.  Ndidi was committing fouls in dangerous areas. Some of the changes made by Rohr were poor except in the two games against Cameroon and South Africa. When Eagles were chasing the game against Madagascar, he did not bring in a striker. He should have introduced Victor Oshimen against Algeria while Ahmed Musa took a bow but that did not happen. Coaches do make mistakes and so Rohr is only human.  It was learnt that he did not work well with his assistants in taking crucial decisions in Egypt and that was bad. After bringing a keepers’ trainer to join Alloy Agu, we were unable to get a quality keeper for AFCON. There are quality keepers in the country, the coaches should work hard to fish them out. Skipper Mikel Obi cannot be at the next AFCON and so Ndidi is the best option as captain because of his position and current form.  The team should be moulded around him. The Technical Department of the Nigeria Football Federation should function, ask questions and provide direction for Rohr. He should be allowed to continue to make the team stronger. The plan of the NFF to send Rohr to Bayern for refresher course is good but two or three Nigerian coaches should follow him to gain knowledge.  Samuel Chukwueze was great at AFCON and it is expected he will get better together with other younger elements in the team. Nigerians should embrace the spirit of sportsmanship; the Eagles cannot win every competition. To place third out of 24 teams is good enough but certainly, there are obvious areas where better quality players are required.