…hails Omeruo, Chukwueze for performance Ex-international, Mutiu Adepoju, has called on Nigerians to show appreciation to Super Eagles captain, Mikel Obi, and the team’s striker, Odion Ighalo, following their retirement from the national team after the recently concluded Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt. Apart from leading the team to the bronze medal outing although he was on the bench in five of the seven games, former Chelsea midfielder, Mikel has been in great form for the country since making his debut in 2005 while Ighalo was the highest goal scorer at the AFCON with five goals. He had earlier scored seven goals to also emerge best scorer in the qualifiers. Speaking with New Telegraph, Adepoju said since they have decided to leave the stage while the ovation is loudest, we should respect their decision. “They felt it is better to leave when the ovation is loudest and I didn’t see anything wrong in that,” he said. “They have been giving their best serving the country and the national team, we just have to congratulate them for what they have done. “They have sacrificed a lot for the country and now that they have decided not to continue, we need to wish them well in their future endeavours. “Some people have been castigating someone like Ighalo, for failure to get goals for the team, but he responded with the highest goal scorer of the qualifiers and now the AFCON, so we should appreciate them both.” Meanwhile, Adepoju has applauded the performances of CD Leganés defender, Kenneth Omeruo, and Villarreal attacker, Samuel Chukwueze, at the AFCON. According to him, they have been able to show the world that their performance in the LaLiga last season was not just a fluke. He added: “The two of them did well for the national team. They actually continued with what they did with their clubs in Spain and bring that form to the Super Eagles. They both scored goals and really did well to take the team to the semifinal and the bronze medal.” It would be recalled that Omeruo scored the only goal in the 1-0 defeat of Guinea in the group stage of the AFCON and bagged the Man-of-the-Match award while Chukwueze was named the best player of the quarterfinal victory against South Africa while scoring the opening goal in the game.