At the moment, no one can deny the fact that Nigeria is going through one of its most turbulent times in its chequered history.  And Arewa, my beloved North, is gradually being decimated right before our very eyes. At a time when the leadership of the country is being piloted by one of our so-called ‘very own’ PMB, the region has never had it so bad; whether socially, culturally, economically, but most importantly, security; or to put it in context, the lack of it. Back in the day, when the atmosphere was to say the least, normal, the region used to be the centrepiece of the nation’s food production, from Benue State, which used to be known as ‘the Food basket of the nation’ to Plateau State, the ‘Home of Peace’.  That was then; nowadays, the only news emanating from the region has been overtaken by tales of pervading insecurity, killings by so-called herdsmen, kidnappings, farmers/herders clash etc.  As the dawn of this administration’s second-term begins, most of us ordinary Nigerians who have endured the pain and bewilderment of living in our dear nation today deserve an award, or at least a standing ovation; for surviving against all odds in the face of almost hopelessness about the future. Nowadays, the country, particularly Arewa’s insecurity situation, is worsening by the day on account of job losses and escalating youth unemployment.  Bandits, kidnappers are all over the place, leaving only tales of woes and misery along their path. Blood-letting has unfortunately become a regular staple in the country. Now, it seems that bandits are in possession of more sophisticated weapons than what is available to security agents. Without being a prophet of doom, reality check shows that majority of Nigerians are living under severe hunger, pain, heart break, anguish and poverty due to the mismanagement of the country’s economy.  Many ordinary Nigerians, especially youths, are now more deprived than they were then; they are now more ethnic-conscious than in the past; the country is now more divided than ever before. The hatred level in the country generally has now been elevated to unprecedented levels and hate speech has almost become a national anthem. The negative vibrations are already being felt across the length and breadth of the North, which many observers say if left unchecked could spill-over into the rest of the country.  The jobless youths are being orchestrated to descend full blown into thuggery. People can no longer send their kids regularly to school, job losses are occurring on a daily basis, people have now been turned to beggars (in addition to the millions of street beggars, or almajirai, roaming aimlessly across the streets of the North), while many Nigerians can barely eat once a day or access to affordable healthcare since the administration came with its ambiguous economic agenda, which to an increasing number of observers, is destroying most businesses and the economy.  Unfortunately, the situation has now degenerated further, with almost the whole states in the North facing a period of uncertainty bordering on the scale of the ‘unknown-unknown’ (apolo-  gies to Donald Rumsfeld), from what economists term: a scale of ‘certain-uncertainty’, it has now degenerated into ‘uncertain-uncertainty’.  Many observers have said that Nigeria, especially the North with its burgeoning population, is plagued by too many internal problems.   Stakeholders have posited that the enduring imagechange Nigeria needs is the kind that must address the image crisis that has eaten deep into the fabric of the country and its people.  Since the Buhari administration took office, its economic policies, whether well-intentioned or otherwise, have had what some of its apologists termed “unintended negative consequences”, and anyone making an objective analysis of the President’s economic scorecard in his first term would be hard-pressed to give a pass mark, in light of the woeful outcomes; from its foreign currency devaluation to the untamed double-digit inflation, the consequence of which almost all of us, including good-old PMB, have become impoverished in real terms.  Many Nigerians who had very ambitious expectations for this administration’s second coming, are now having a rethink and have begun to wonder when or whether things will ever begin to positively take shape.  Many critics have faulted some of the mis-steps of government to include its 2019 GDP target of 2.2%, which is well below the country’s projected population growth of 2.6 %, according to the World Bank, to its over-ambitious plans to generate employment for a 100 million Nigerians in 10 years, without providing any specifics, etc.  The list is endless. And the latest inaction of PMB to appoint his cabinet a full month after being sworn in, and four months after being reelected, confirms the justification in many quarters that this administration is indeed clay-flooted.  Just last week, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, expressed fears that Nigeria may slide into another recession if measures are not taken to tackle the high rate of unemployment and other economic crisis but most importantly, the (in)security problem.  Whereas, just last week, the governors of the six states in the South-West geo-political zone have hastily convened a security summit in Ibadan where they pledged to find a solution to the lingering security challenges in the zone, their counterparts in the North are busy checking their calendars to confirm the next monthly FAAC allocation.  Whatever the case, at this stage in our historical experience as a country, we have reached a point where we cannot continue as we have been going all this while. Nigeria’s estimated 200 million- plus population cannot grow rich by just exporting oil to the rest of the world, without embracing value-added manufacturing and being integrated into the global supply chain of multinational companies.  While the current administration began its second term on May 29, 2019, all hope is not lost. However, the President clearly needs to take some tough decisions as well be decisive in the coming days and months. lImam writes from Tudun-Wada, Kaduna via aminimam@gmail.com