  There was chaos in the Ondo State House of Assembly yesterday as snakes, which dropped from the ceiling during plenary, chased away the lawmakers. The Assembly was forced to abruptly adjourn indefinitely. The appearance of the snakes led to pandemonium as lawmakers scampered for safety. The snakes, it was learnt, have been falling from the ceiling of the Assembly since Wednesday. Apart from the Hallowed Chamber, the snakes were also seen in the office of the Speaker, Mr. Bamidele Oleyelogun, and offices of the lawmakers. A witness, who is a worker in the Assembly, said owing to deplorable condition of facilities at the complex, snakes and other reptiles freely entered lawmakers’ offices and the Hallowed Chamber. According to him, a mysterious snake appeared on Wednesday in one of the offices. It caused mild drama and apprehension at the Assembly complex when it pursued a lawmaker out of his office. He explained that the lawmakers had just started the business of the day when the reptiles dropped from the ceiling of the Chamber. According to him, the lawmakers, however, regrouped to suspend legislative business after the snakes were killed and collectively agreed to suspend activities in the Chamber until the complex is renovated. He said: “Today, three snakes fell from the Chamber’s roof when the sitting was about to commence and this made all the lawmakers to run for their lives. “One of the snakes dropped in front of the Speaker, the snakes escaped from the scene, some of the lawmakers were shaking as if they wanted to die.” The Speaker, however, declared that the House should proceed on indefinite recess as their security could not be guaranteed as a result of the ugly development. Speaking on the development, the Chairman of House Committee on Information, Hon. Gbenga Omole, described the presence of the snakes as embarrassing, saying the development was a threat to the lawmakers’ legislative duties. According to him, the most embarrassing situation was when the House reconvened to deliberate on some legislative business and the ceiling of the House caved in, dropping on the table of the Speaker of House of Assembly, Oleyelogun. Omole, however, said the House had to adjourn sitting indefinitely over the infrastructural decay in the Chamber and some parts of the House of Assembly Complex. He said: “We were about to enter into plenary yesterday (Wednesday) when a big snake just ran out of the chamber which disrupted our sitting and we had to hurriedly leave the chamber. “We were about to sit again today (Thursday) when a ceiling caved in directly where Mr. Speaker was sitting, the whole House was agitated and when we looked around, we saw the damage that termites had done to most of the wood work in the Chamber. “At that point, we had to call ourselves and adjourned the sitting because we discovered that the Chamber is no longer good for legislative business and because of this, we decided to adjourn indefinitely. The House will be going on an indefinite recess.” Omole disclosed that the House had written to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, to inform him on the development and the need to renovate the whole complex, saying the House of Assembly complex had been turned to abode for reptiles and rodents. He added: “We eventually killed the snake, but there are a lot of reptiles hibernating in the roof of the Chamber, and whenever it rains, the whole chamber is flooded. “We need to intimate the state governor about this development and we have decided to meet him on this. Mr. Governor is aware of part of the infrastructural decay here because most of the things here are outdated and not too good for legislative business.” The chairman said the House was relying on the governor for the renovation of the complex because “as at now, the House has not been given the (financial) autonomy we are agitating for, because if it had been approved, we don’t need to consult the governor. You know how things are being run presently; every arm of government needs to look up to the executive to get things done.” He added: “But pending the approval of the legislative autonomy, we have to look towards the executive where Mr. Governor is in charge and we will have to appeal to him to come to our aid because we have a lot of business to do and there are a lot of bills to be treated. “When I said we are going on recess, we will continue to come to our offices, but sitting down in that Chamber is what is not going to happen. We have written to Mr. Governor for him to know what is happening here.”