Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has maintained his position that he governs a Christian state. He said that the Christian Community stood firmly to defeat the forces of democratic darkness during the March 9, 2019 governorship election.
He noted that Rivers’ Christians insisted that Rivers mandate must be respected, despite the ugly plots against the state, adding that he would continue to support the church for the role it played. He spoke at the 2019 Election Victory Thanksgiving Service in his honour and Deputy Governor Ipalibo Harry Banigo by all the Anglican Dioceses of Rivers State at Saint Paul’s Cathedral, Port Harcourt yesterday.
He said:”I want to use this medium to thank the Church for their support. It is important for us to realise that but for the support and prayers of the Church, we wouldn’t have attained victory. “I heard that some people are angry that I declared Rivers as a Christian state. With what happened on March 9, 2019, it re-emphasised my conviction that Rivers is a Christian state. Nobody can intimidate me into changing my position…
“I will not disappoint the Church. I will continue to support the Church. When people who think that they are God came, Christians stood firm and showed that Rivers State is a Christian state “, he said.
He promised to grow the state during his second term, insisting that even though some of his policies might be tough, they will be pro-people in nature.
The governor also reiterated the state’s rejection of RUGA settlements for herdsmen in whatever form, stressing that the state can only donate ocean water to the system via the laying of water pipelines to serve the cattle in the northern part of the country. In a sermon, the Anglican Bishop of Okrika Diocese, Rt Rev Tubokosemie Abere, said the Thanksgiving Service marked the beginning of a glorious era in Rivers State. He said: “Today marks the journey of a glorious era of our state. The attitude of Thanksgiving will never end in our state”. Bishop Abere urged all Rivers politicians to work with the Rivers State Governor to develop the state in line with the hand of reconciliation extended by Wike. He commended the Rivers State governor for his outstanding performance in his first term and urged him to step up the tempo in his second term. The Cleric noted that the Thanksgiving Service was necessary to appreciate God for standing with Rivers people during the elections and stopping the enemies of democracy who wanted to impose a governor.