Nigeria is one of many countries battling the menace of fake or cloned phones with its attendant economic losses and health hazards. However, there seems to be hope on the horizon as telecom regulator is at the verge of deploying technology to address the problem. SAMSON AKINTARO reports   From increasing electronic wastes to loss of government revenue, Nigeria had over the years, been at the receiving end of negative impacts of fake phones. While the problem is not peculiar to the country, Nigeria remains one of the top destinations for substandard, fake or cloned devices. Indeed, it is estimated that around 250 million fake devices are sold yearly in the country. This is said to represent between 15 and 20 per cent of the worldwide mobile phone market. The situation is becoming more worrisome for the country, as there is currently, no e-waste management policy to manage the wastes being generated from both original and substandard electronic devices. Aside from contributing to the rising electronic wastes in the country, experts say users of fake phones risk health hazards. The proliferation of counterfeit phones in the country is also raising security concerns, as the phones are either without International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number or with a cloned number, which makes them impossible to be traced. However, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said it has heeded calls of stakeholders and would now deploy technology to fight the threat. Type-approval Through the provisions of the Nigerian Communications Act 2003, NCC is mandated to establish and enforce standards for all telecommunications equipment in operation in the country to ensure that they operate seamlessly and safely within the Nigerian telecommunications environment. Mobile manufacturers that want to sell in the country are expected to first apply with the regulator for the type-approval, which is granted after the device has been tested. However, despite the regulation, thousands of mobile phones still find their way into the market without approval. Indeed, the influx of fake and sub-standard phones into the country has been a major problem of the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) who felt they are being short-changed through the unlicensed mobiles being sold in the country. Stakeholders suggest solutions The President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Olusola Temiola, had also raised the alarm over the challenge of fake and unapproved phones flooding the Nigerian market. According to him, there are about 20 mobile brands that are being sold in Nigeria without NCC’s approval. “Government should put anti-counterfeiting measures such as the facilitation of integrated web portal based IMEI-IMSI collection to stem the menace of sub-standard or unrecognised mobile phones circulating in Nigeria with the obvious consequences of poor quality of service, loss of revenue to government, loss of business by OEMS and loss of jobs as well in Nigeria mobile market, for instance, we have over  20 mobile phone brands that do not have NCC type-approval certificate to operate in Nigeria. These unregistered/unapproved brands have over 150 mobile phone models circulating in Nigeria”, he said. Industry stakeholders at a recent forum in Lagos said there was need for information sharing among the Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and regulators on cases of fake phones discovered. This, they said, would help the regulators to know where to channel their efforts in combating the problem. In addition, they said a sustained sensitisation for Nigerians on the dangers of using fake and cloned phones, would be necessary to discourage buyers. MDMS as solution However, to tackle the problem, the executive vice chairman of the Commission, said the agency would deploy a Mobile Device Management System (MDMS). According to him, the proposed MDMS would have the capacity to facilitate the mandatory registration of all SIM-based devices in Nigeria, block all stolen, counterfeit, illegal or otherwise substandard SIM-based devices from operators’ networks and interface with the Customs Service, tax authority, security agencies, standards organizations and other relevant agencies to ensure the full registration, payment of duties and taxes due on those devices and the protection of security and privacy of users in Nigeria. To arrive at the decision, the EVC said several consultative forums had been held with stakeholders which included the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Mobile Network Operators (MNOs), Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), Security Agencies, Standards Organizations, and Equipment and Solution Vendors. Explaining how the system would work to detect cloned or fake phones, Danbatta said all mobile devices have IMEI, which are allocated by the GSMA. He added the MDMS would be connected to the GSMA database for easy detection of devices with fake IMEI once they are connected to any of the networks in the country. While noting that counterfeiting is a global problem, which Nigeria is not insulated from, the EVC said the challenges posed by the menace are quite devastating, as it has been hindering the progress made so far in ICT usage and processes in terms of its economic, social, environmental and security impacts on the country. “The unchecked import and use of unregistered, cloned, substandard, counterfeit, stolen and or non-compliant devices pose a considerable threat to Quality of Service (QoS) and Experience (QoE), security, amongst others in Nigeria,” he said. He said the increasing cybercrime; evasion of taxes, terrorism and health and safety concerns raised by the use of stolen, counterfeit and substandard devices in Nigeria are of serious concern to the regulator, hence the deployment of technology. Joint efforts In view of the security implications, the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) in collaboration with NCC and other government agencies, had earlier this year set up committees to combat the threat of fake phone. The two joint committees set up were the Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprising the Infrastructure Concession & Regulatory Commission (ICRC), the Federal Ministry of Communications and the NCC; and the Project Delivery Team (PDT) which drew representation from the Federal Ministry of Communications, the ICRC, the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the NCC. Last line Essentially, stakeholders would want all government agencies with overlapping functions in controlling devices entering the country, such as Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to work together as a team with common purpose of ridding Nigeria of fake phones.