Senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial District, Elisha Abbo, was arraigned yesterday before a Zuba Magistrates’ Court in Abuja for allegedly assaulting a nursing mother at a sex toy shop.
Abbo, however, pleaded not guilty to a one-count charge of assault.
The senator was arraigned before Senior Magistrate Abdullahi Ilellah, by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command.
Abbo had admitted to the offence and also apologised to Nigerians, following a viral video in which he was seen physically assaulting a nursing mother.
Dressed in blue attire with a pair of black shoes and native cap, the accused was brought to the court where he took his plea in the dock.
He was subsequently granted bail in the sum of N5 million and two sureties in like sum.
The sureties, according to the bail condition must have verifiable addresses within the FCT.
Meanwhile, the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Nigeria, has revealed its intention to join in the suit as an interested party.
The position of FIDA was made known in a statement issued in Abuja through its chairperson, Rekia Rachael Adejo-Andrew.
“FIDA Nigeria Abuja Branch joins in condemning completely the said act of the senator. The act is wrong, unacceptable, archaic and criminal in nature. It is violence against a woman and clearly contravenes the express provisions of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act 2015 (which is operative in Abuja), Penal Code Law and other Laws.
“May we state that we are interested party in the arrest, investigation and prosecution of the senator.
“It is therefore irrelevant and immaterial that he has tendered an apology. The apology as a matter of fact is clearly an admission of commission of the crime. We accordingly call for his prosecution to serve as deterrent to all and sundry who act with impunity and think that a woman can be beaten up at anytime under any guise by a man more so in the presence of his orderly, a law enforcement official. It is doubtful if he would have beaten the shop attendant or friend if she were a man,” the statement reads in part.