H ousehold enemies are the enemies within the family. The Bible establishes the fact that one’s enemies are really members of his household -Micah 7:2-6).  The biblical examples of Household enemies begin from Abel and Cain. Cain was envious of his brother Abel who gave the best to God. He murdered his brother because of envy. We also have the example of Lot and Abraham. Another bitter example is that of Jacob and Esau. Through the help of Rebecca the mother of both, the destiny of Esau was stolen and delivered to Jacob till today.  One of the most important Bible stories is that of Joseph who was sold into slavery by his brothers in order to abort his destiny. (Gen. 37:19-20)  They removed his coat of many colours and put him into a dry pit while they ate. This is a common practice of household enemies who usually discourage recognition of our talents and competence and put us in pit of life which is a situation of stagnation.  We now come to the situation of the children of David who killed their brothers in the manner of survival of the fittest.  Household enemies are very common situations in the African society because of the polygamous arrangements of family settings. Polygamy was a sign of prosperity in the olden days. Wives and children were supposed to help the husband and father in the farm work. Prosperity depended on how many wives and children that were available.  Marriage therefore was a place of competition for women, most of whom were actually fortified with witchcraft as a weapon of survival. Women needed the witchcraft to do as follows.  1. To get the attention of the husband  2. To support their children   3. To fight their rivals and their children  The above is why the diviners and other spiritual consultants usually blame the rival wives for the misfortunes of the children.  Another very common household enemies are the uncles who, out of envy attack the destinies of their victims. There is always a cult of people with familiar spirits in every African family. Members of this cult know the spiritual labels of every family member.  They have to b e consulted if any family member is to be tackled by the non family  member. Yoruba has an adage that says (external power cannot kill without the  cooperation of the family member) “biku ile ko pani tode kole pani”. It is when one isreleased to the congregation of witches by one’s family member that such a one becomes a lawful captive. (Isaiah 49:24-26)  A lawful captive is that person that was legally purchased in the occultic realm and therefore becomes a spiritual slave having lost all his human privileges. Such a one has become like a common domestic animal to the occutic people who are his real owners. The Occultics are usually called Merchants in the manner by which Joseph was sold to the Midianite Merchants (Gen. 37:28) (Isaiah 47:13-15.)  The above is why death of persons known as witch or occultic persons within the family does not necessarily translate to the freedom of the victim of witchcraft attack.  The reason is that the household enemy has already sold and has disinvested  himself from every right of ownership of the victims. However there are situations where the household enemy is directly responsible for holding a victim in his  custody. He monitors such a one with mirror, water and other devices used as  monitoring spirits. Victims of this manner of attack may experience being pressed  down and suffocated at sleep, bad dreams or meeting cobwebs in the street.  Most of the bad things like sicknesses, stagnation, hatred, ill-luck, promise and fail  and others that happen to people are the products of spiritual slavery initiated by the  household enemies. Our prayers are erroneously directed to the effect rather than  the cause. This message will enlighten believers to really understand the root cause  of their spiritual challenges and tackle them appropriately.  The main disadvantage in  our deliverance strategies, is that methods of deliverance are based on foreign  ideologies targeting the pattern of witchcraft attack in the Western world rather than  how they attack in Africa. Satan the devil has his representatives in different  geographical parts of the world whose aims and objectives are to fight the children of  God but their methods of operation differ from zone to zone.