Policemen in Lagos and officials of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) at the weekend arrested eight suspected Naira hawkers. Police operatives led the CBN officials on the onslaught at major markets within Ikeja and its environs.   The hawkers were said to be involved in the sale of mint Naira notes, contrary to Section 21 of the CBN Act, 2007.   The suspects are Adetoro Adijat (37), Mahmoud Ayoola (42), Eze Madu (27), Olorunfunmi Shakirat (38), Akonji Julius (40), Olalekan Kadri (23), Akinsonya Abiodun (34) and Adeniyi Yetunde (30). They were said to have sold mint notes at social events.   The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, yesterday said the operation was carried out on July 12 and 13, leading to the arrest of eight suspects.   He said: “A cash of N2.5 million mint of different denominations, used in the illicit trade and other exhibit, were recovered from them. Investigation is ongoing to ascertain the source of the mint currency. What they did is punishable offence under the CBN Act, which states that any person or group hawking, selling or trading in the Naira notes, coins or any note issued by the Central Bank of Nigeria would be dealt with seriously. “Investigation will reveal how these suspects come about these new currencies. We’re going to get to the root of it, because the offence is punishable with N50,000 fine, or six months imprisonment or both. No good country would allow her currency to be abused in anyway. That is what we are guarding against. The CBN is out to enforce the law and we would give them the necessary backing.   Elkana said it was important for members of the public to note that acts of spraying the Naira notes at events, soiling and writing on the Naira, squeezing the Naira, as well as hawking and selling of the country’s currency notes were abuses of the Naira punishable by law.   He added: “We all have a duty to protect the Naira as our currency which forms part of the symbols of our national identity. The command thereby, appealed to members of general public to report any person or group seen abusing the Naira to the police or law enforcement officers. The suspects would be charged to court.”