Four Turkish nationals kidnapped in Kwara State, yesterday regained their freedom from their abductors. Similarly, the Ekiti State Police Command yesterday confirmed the release of three civil servants, abducted along the Ayede-Isan Ekiti Road in the Oye Local Government Area of Ekiti. Security sources said the four Turkish nationals namely Yasin Colak, 33; Senerapal, 40; Ergun Yurdakul, 35; and Seyit Keklik, 25, who were kidnapped on July 22, were rescued during an operation. Confirming their rescue, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr Kayode Egbetokun, said he received the Turkish nationals at the Police Headquarters in Ilorin, the state capital. The four, who are construction workers, were kidnapped by gunmen at a bar in Kwara State last Saturday night. The victims were said to be working with the Instabul Concrete Limited in Gbale. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Public Relations Officer (PRO), DSP. Caleb Ikechukwu, who confirmed the release of the workers, said the three men were secured after the men had spent a some days with their captors. It was also gathered that the workers were employees of the Ekiti State Road Maintenance Agency. A source close to the kidnapped men, confirmed that their captors initially demanded a ransom of N10 million for the release of the workers. According to the source, who pleaded not to be identified, the families of the kidnapped workers could only afford one million naira, which he said, the kidnappers accepted, realizing that the people abducted were civil servants, not having much. “Yes, they were released yesterday after they paid N1 million each,” said the source. But the police spokesman claimed that the workers were freed, following prompt and decisive actions taken by the police. “Immediately we heard about the kidnapping, our men bombarded the forest located between Ayede Ekiti and Isan Ekitu, up to Ijesamodu, where they were taken to. “We combed everywhere and when they knew we were closing in on them, they quickly released those they held hostage and fled. “Our men were very careful to avoid crossfire with the abductors, so that the hostages won’t be killed in the process and it worked out.” Ikechukwu said, however, that the police were not told whether the families of the abducted people paid ransom to anyone.