The Bible speaking in the book of John 14:1-3 says “Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father’s house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also’’. Beloved, our father in heaven is bringing this message, haven seen the challenges many people are passing through this time. There are so many problems people going are through, ranging from sicknesses, marriage problems, unemployment, among others. This consequently, has led to uncertainty and apprehension. Whatever is the case, you need to understand that you are not the first, nor the only one to have encountered such situation. Remember, there was a man named Job in the bible. He was a very successful rich man. But a time came when he came under severe attack from the devil. Consequently, he became very sick, and lost all he had, including the children, leaving only the wife who kept mocking, and persuading him to curse God. In all Job remained faithful, and never cursed God. [Job 1,2,3, In the same vein, today many people are troubled in various ways, such persons need urgent attention, and God have decided to give them deliverance, as He gave to Job. Why are you troubled? God is asking you. [Mathew 8:23-27] Brethren, by the reason of this message, God is assuring us of His grace, and power. We must not despair, we must be faithful, and hopeful in God, He will remember you, as He remembered Rachel. [Genesis 30:22-23] ‘’ And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb. And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away my reproach’’. God also remembered Sarah, as He hath said. Genesis21:1-2.
God also remembered Israel as a Nation. Genesis 3:7-8 says “And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by the reason of their taskmasters; for I know their sorrows; And I am come down to deliver them out of the land of Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land, unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites’’. Not only that He will hear, and save you, He will also save you and your family. And you, and your family will serve Him.