Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and his team recently organised a Post-2019 General Election Review Meeting with the media in Lagos. WALE ELEGBEDE brings the excerpt of the INEC’s boss response to some of the issues raised   Recommendations of election observers   The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is committed to implementing all recommendations by observers. The reality, however, is that some of the recommendations cannot be implemented by administrative action by the commission alone. It will require collaborations with others. If for instance, we want unimpeded access for the media, we need to talk to security agencies. If a politician complains of lack of access, particularly, to a state owned media corporation, we have to speak with the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), which is the regulator.  There are aspects that require amendments to the Constitution and the Electoral Act, so we have to work with the National Assembly. Some may require enhanced voters education and we have to work with the media. So, it’s not all the recommendations that can just be implemented outrightly by the commission. So, when we disaggregated the recommendations, we found out that there are only nine that we can actually implement administratively without requiring collaboration from others. In other cases, we need collaborations and amendments to the electoral framework.   We are committed to ensuring that some of the recommendations that we can implement by administrative actions will be implemented in the forthcoming Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections scheduled for November 16. Indeed, I want to assure you that if there is any critical recommendation that requires immediate action, we will consider it in the next few weeks, when we will conduct the first bye-election since the 2019 general elections coming up on August 3, for Pengana State Constituency of Plateau State   Conduct of primaries by political parties   Press conference after press conference, news briefing after news briefing before the election, the commission consistently said that the conduct of party primaries for the 2019 general elections was the most acrimonious in the history of our election and the fact that so far as at last week, we have issued 87 Certificate of Return in obedience to court order also confirms what we have been saying about the conduct of primaries by political parties. And the fact that we have so far 809 court cases challenging the conduct of primaries by political parties more than the number of court cases challenging the outcome of the main election itself, shows how acrimonious the party primaries were.   But we decided to take an activist role this time around. In the past, we interpreted section 31 of the Electoral Act almost literally. That section said if a party submits the name of a candidate to INEC; the commission has no power to reject it for any reason whatsoever. That was the language of the law. We started seeing a trend beginning with the Anambra governorship election. Parties conducted their primaries in Awka and we monitored the primaries. But, by the time they submitted their nominations, we discovered that two parties changed the names of those who emerged from the primaries as they were bringing the list from Awka to Abuja.   And in one of the by-elections we conducted in one of the states, there were some parties who didn’t conduct primaries at all. But the parties submitted names of candidates believing that we couldn’t reject them because of section 31. But no person stands as a candidate, they all stand as aspirants before they are transformed to candidates whose names are submitted to INEC. So, we say if they all stand as aspirants, how were they transformed into candidates? That is why the provision of section 87 of the Electoral Act applies.   That section of the Act provides for direct and indirect primaries by political parties to democratically elect or nominate candidates for elections. So, we now decided that you can’t have the name of a candidate to submit to INEC under section 31 if there is no evidence that you have conducted primaries under section 87 and we applied that in the case of a state that you all know. So, the matter went through the legal process up until the Supreme Court and the apex court ruled.   This is a major judgment because each and every institution acts on the basis of its understanding of the law. That was our understanding of the law even when some people disagree and that means issues were joined. If issues were joined, who is the arbiter? The judiciary, of course. When the Supreme Court decides on a matter in our constitution, everybody is duty-bound to obey the judgement. So, we are happy that this matter is settled and we are going to insist, going forward, that where there is no evidence that section 87 has been complied with, no candidate’s name can be forwarded to INEC under section 31.   Competence of professors with figures   We will look into this and ensure that they are competent with figures. We have been encouraging them to use the Excel sheet and in virtually every collation centre, we have this facility. So, you don’t even need to be racking your brain and using ordinary calculators to calculate election results. The Excel sheet will add things up for you, including marginal lead and cancellation.   Media coverage of 2019 election   Through the goodwill we enjoyed from the media, the 2019 general elections was the most extensively covered event this year though we are just in the middle of the year. The live coverage on television, radio, online newspapers and other platforms as well as the subsequent incisive analysis of issues in newspapers were no doubt another demonstration by the media that the nation comes above all else.   Imo West Senatorial District   I must say that we are worried.   You know that there was a time when some people induced voters long before the elections or at the eve of elections. If actions had been taken, probably we wouldn’t have the kind of situation we are having today as voters’ inducement has assumed a new dimension in the form of open vote-buying at polling units on election day. Now, if our Returning Officers are intimidated, harassed and molested to make declarations, then, perhaps in the future, so many people won’t even bother to campaign at all. They will just carry money to the polling units and all they need is a gun at the collation centre and force the Returning Officer to make a declaration.   But just as we did in sections 31 and 87 of the Electoral Act, although we lost the case at the High Court, we are going on appeal the judgement at the Court of Appeal and we hope that at the end of the day, there is going to be a definitive statement by the Supreme Court on the matter. But in addition, it’s one of the areas we are going to actively pursue the National Assembly to empower the commission by amending the Electoral Act, so that if that kind of thing happens, we can determine the type of consequences to what occurred.   Electoral reforms  The biggest reform we need in our electoral process, which incidentally cannot be legislated is attitudinal change. Our concern is where mistrust is induced by people, who would say that the best thing to ever happen to Nigeria since 1914 is INEC, when they win an election. But, where they don’t win, they say the worst thing that happened before Lord Lugard is INEC. That was why I said we need attitudinal change and that attitudinal change cannot be legislated.  Conduct of elections in difficult terrains  The problem of terrains in Nigeria is not only limited to Borno State or the North, but virtually everywhere. I’ll give you an illustration of that. In 2016, we conducted an Area Council election in the Federal Capital Territory (Abuja) which is the only place where INEC conducts local government elections. I was under the assumption that everywhere in Abuja was like Wuse, Garki or Maitama. I didn’t realise that there are parts of the Federal Capital Territory which are not even motorable. So, we had to engage the association of Okada riders to move election materials.  But, in the middle of it, there was a posting on the social media, saying the diversion of election materials have begun; that they are using motorcycles to divert election materials. They didn’t know that we were using the Okada’s to navigate the villages. In Bayelsa, for example, I think its only parts of Sagbama, Yenagoa, Ogbia and parts of Kolokuma/Opokuma that you can actually go by road. How do you get materials to Brass, Ekeremo, Oporoma the capital of Southern Ijaw and Nembe? Not only that; you have security issue added to it. We had to hire boats.  Even in Ondo State, how do you get to Ilaje? It’s always a sore point making a declaration of election result in Ondo because results from Ilaje will always come last. In the last governorship election in Ondo, we decided to do something different. We insisted that results must be brought to Akure, the state capital, no matter how late. We arranged with the Navy and they provided escorts. So, the kind of things we go through getting to the villages to conduct elections and getting the results out can only be appreciated by those who are involved.   I think we may consider the suggestion that journalists should be embedded in the conduct of elections in the riverine areas, so that they would see how elections are conducted in those areas. I only hope they will have the stomach to go to a place like Oporoma, where you spend hours on the open seas trying to get to polling units. Remember, this is the biggest logistical undertaking in this country, to get to over 176,000 polling units and to make sure that they open at 8.am nationwide, it’s a big issue given the state of infrastructure in the country.   I recall that the Ministry of Information did something about the fight against insurgency in Borno State. I remember that one of the journalists tweeted after a helicopter tour of Sambissa forest that ‘the forest is six times the size of Lagos State. But the impression we get sometimes is that is just like the size of a football field, so all we need to do is to just send a plane and bomb everyone back to their senses.’ This is not to say that every challenge does not have a solution. 