Over the years, football and entertainment have brought smiles to the faces of Nigerians in various ways. The exploits of the country’s footballers and artistes have been a big boost to the image of Nigeria. Wizkid, Davido and Tiwa Savage are known all over the world for their talents and prowess on their job as good singers. This is positive for Nigeria, but if they engage in any negativity, the backlash will also be on the country.  When Anthony Joshua won the boxing heavyweight belt, it was a proud moment for Nigerians, even though the boxer was competing as Briton.  As we enjoy the way the world celebrates and admonishes the country when the athletes and artistes do well, the same happens when the reverse occurs. We frown at the recent situation in which all the three national football teams competing at international levels, stage protests in their respective camps to put the image of the country in the mud.  On June 4, the Flying Eagles refused to leave their hotel in Poland over unpaid allowances and bonuses after the team lost to Senegal in the second round stage of the competition.  On June 23, the Super Falcons, after losing 3-0 to Germany in the second round of the FIFA Women’s World Cup, also staged a protest at their hotel in France over unpaid allowances and just two days later, the Super Eagles currently campaigning at the on-going AFCON refused to take part in the mandatory press conference before the Guinea match, threatened to boycott the country’s second match against Guineans next day.  All these incidents happened within 21 days and it was ridiculous as the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) was busy with statements to clarify positions rather than avert these situations. We condemn the actions of these players, especially their inability to make these issues internal, rather than subjecting Nigeria to global public ridicule.   What they have demonstrated was lack of trust for the Federation and that informed their protest. The administrators of the Federation should have worked towards avoiding any of such issues. It is also funny that it was on the eve of the second match that the money released by the Federal Government was received.  This does not portray Nigeria as a serious country. And so, the players have their share  of this blame, just as the Federation and government.  The NFF should have made alternative arrangements to cover up on its finances through its numerous sponsors because the Federation obviously had its hands full. For example, alternative plans should have been made to save the situation at the point it was realised there was no bonus for the opening game against Burundi at AFCON.  We make bold to say that the high marks NFF received for the preparations given to the Falcons, the Flying Eagles and also the Super Eagles were all lost during the competitions proper. NFF fell short when it mattered most. Starting a race well is not the only important thing, but to finish well among the best.  We recall issuing warning to the federation on the need to adequately prepare for the overlapping fixtures of the national teams ahead.  Time is also ripe for the marketing department of the Federation to get different sponsors for various national teams on the cards. It is not right for NFF to depend 100 per cent on government for the funding of all the national teams. Going forward, the Federation should ensure all the match bonuses and allowances of players were ready before every competition.  The players must also know what they are entitled to either for appearance or qualification and when it will be paid. Nigeria is too big to be experiencing what has been happening in the past three weeks.  These are situations that could have been averted if urgent steps were taken to plan well for all the events on the cards for the federation. The events of the past weeks however call for a strong probe with a view of bringing defaulters to book.  The embarrassment has been a routine in the sports scene and this must stop. If one person or some people are brought to book, it will serve as deterrent to others.  We also want to state that there is need to have a good template like a policy on how to run sports in the country. Because there is inconsistency, it is difficult to evaluate some of the problems in sports over the years. Nigerian athletes should embrace patriotism and ensure they put the country first at all times.  The administrators should also be transparent enough to ensure all monies due to the footballers are given to them. These frequent embarrassments are too much. Enough is enough.