Johnchuks Onuanyim, Abuja Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has pitched his tent with the governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, while blaming his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, over the ignoble role he is playing in fuelling the crisis in the state. Oyegun, reacting to the recent outburst and indictment by Governor Godwin Obaseki and the House of Representatives ad-hoc Committee, said he is yet to come to terms on why Oshiomhole has easily forgotten that he never interfered in Edo State affairs as the National chairman of the ruling party while he held forth as the then governor. In a statement issued in Abuja Sunday, by his Public Affairs Adviser, Chief Ray Morphy, the immediate past National Chairman of the ruling party wondered why Oshiomhole has failed to realised that Governor Obaseki should be supported as the only APC governor in the South-South geopolitical zone rather than vilifying and destabilising his administration. The statement also portrayed Oyegun as wondering why a man who claimed to have buried godfatherism in Edo State politics could play God and become an agent of disruption in the smooth running of the state government. He specifically urged the Progressive Governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor being hampered by a party chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune of the party. “The recent outburst by Governor Obaseki and the report by the House of Representatives ad-hoc committee, indicting the current National Chairman of the APC, have confirmed my earlier claim that Oshiomhole is not only the architect but also responsible for fuelling the crisis in Edo State. “In the face of these confirmations, I want to urge Oshiomhole to stop disgracing the ruling party and the good people of Edo state. I wonder how he could easily forget that I never interfered or bothered about how he ran the government as the then governor of Edo state all the while I occupied the position of the party’s National Chairman.”  Former National chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, yesterday took a swipe at his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, describing him as a disgrace to the ruling party and Edo State.   Oyegun, who was reacting to the ongoing battle for supremacy between Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin… In "News" ... Buhari in dilemma as govs, ministers draw battle line     • Tinubu bars Ajomale, others from re-contesting     • Why we endorsed Oshiomhole –Eta     The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, has described the endorsement of the former governor… In "Politics" A member of Buhari Youth Organisation (BYO) and former Publicity Secretary of the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Godwin Erhahon, yesterday warned leaders of the party in the state against escalating the crisis in the party.   He urged them to steer clear of pitching the… In "News"