Police have arrested three suspects in connection with the gruesome murder of a couple in Sagamu area of Ogun State.
The suspected murderers, identified as Ibrahim Uthman, Aba Abdulkareem and Abdulhamid Ibrahim, were nabbed barely two weeks after they attacked the aged couple in their home.
The couple, James Olaosebikan (72) and Esther Olaosebikan (68), were killed on June 30 at their residence situated at Km54, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.
They were said to have recognised one of their assailants during the operation, and in a bid to cover their tracks, the suspects allegedly hacked their victims to death.
Confirming the arrest of the suspects yesterday, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, said they were apprehended on July 12.
Oyeyemi said the suspects had already confessed to being members of a robbery gang that carried out the killing.
The PPRO explained that the son of the deceased, Joseph, reported the incident at the Sagamu Police Station, saying the assailants gained entry into their house through the ceiling and inflicted machete cuts on his parents.
He said: “Upon the report, the Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, gave marching orders to the DPO, Sagamu Division, SP Okiki Agunbiade, to fish out the killers within the shortest possible time.
“In compliance with the CP’s directive, the DPO and his men embarked on technical and forensic investigation of the case and their efforts yielded positive result on 12th of July 2019, when three members of the gang namely: Ibrahim Uthman, Aba Abdulkareem and Abdulhamid Ibrahim, were apprehended.
“On interrogation, they confessed being members of a robbery gang and that one of their members, who is now at large, invited them for the purpose of robbing the deceased as well as a nearby shop. But on getting to the house, they discovered that the couple recognised one of them, hence they hacked them to death.”
The police spokesman said the Commissioner of Police, Makama, had ordered the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) to take over the case for proper investigation.
“He (Makama) also directed that the fleeing member of the gang must be brought to book within the shortest possible time,” Oyeyemi added.