Estate developers and residents of the Lokogoma District of the Federal Capital Territory are living in fear following the flood that hit the area, leaving behind multiple tragedies. CALEB ONWE reports   This is not the best of times for some investors, who had sunk billions of naira in the development of mass housing estates in the Lokogoma District of Abuja. While they are battling to get a fair return from unsuspecting off-takers, residents are faced with challenges of bad roads and a reoccurring destructive flood in the area.
Now, both the investors and residents are facing threats of demolition of all buildings located on the water ways.
This followed a discovery that the continuous flooding of the area is as a result of flagrant abuses of the Abuja masterplan by various developers.
The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has issued a two-week ultimatum to hundreds of residents to vacate their buildings for a massive demolition. This followed a discovery that the continuous flooding of the area is as a result of flagrant abuses of the Abuja master plan by various developers.
The FCTA said that the demolition is the only solution to the reoccurring flood but vowed to fish out and punish corrupt officials who colluded with private developers to build on the water ways.
FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr. Christian Ohaa, disclosed that government was worried that lives were always lost to the flood. Ohaa warned that at the expiration of the ultimatum, relevant enforcement departments and agencies would move in and demolish all structures along waterways and road corridors.
Ohaa, who recently paid an unscheduled visit to the area, alongside other top officials of FCT, said that from its finding, the permanent solution to the intractable problem is to remove all the buildings and expand the existing culverts.
He advised residents to always conduct necessary due diligence before buying any property from developers. Ohaa explained that all structures built within 20 meters from the both sides of the water corridors must be demolished.
Director, FCT Department of Development Control, Mukhtar Galadima, who was on ground to assess the situation, revealed that most of the houses standing on the water ways were built without approval.
Galadima, who also confirmed that most of the structures were obstructing waterways and road corridors, affirmed that most of the structures must be demolished in order to ease the flow of water.
Inside Abuja’s investigation revealed that the flooding had become a yearly nightmare that has forced both residents and some landlords to abandon their property.
From findings, the fury of the water was always tensed because the course of rivers Kabusa and Wumba that flow through the estates have been obstructed by buildings.
It was also learnt that Lokogoma district, said to host a cluster of over 50 different mega private estates has always had a bitter experience due to bad roads. While many of the estates do not have good road networks, residents also battle with epileptic power supply.
Sometime in July 2017, the flooding, which came like a thief in the night, swept a family of three away. The death of that man, his daughter and son is yet to be erased from the minds of the residents who are still faced with great uncertainties.
Again, almost 23 months after, unpredictable flood visited the area again , taking away a 17-year-old boy.
Theophilus Degema, a resident of Lokogoma, said that most of the property owners, especially around Phase II Estates, where the flood is always more intense, have abandoned their houses.
Degema noted that, “once it is rainy season, people in the area live in fear of the unknown. The people are more terrified any day there is heavy down pour, because all the roads used to be over flooded.”
Another resident, Pastor Michael Dauda, said that the most disturbing issue to the residents are the too many unfulfilled promises by the developers. He noted that developers will use all manner of ” sugar coated words” to convince property buyers to make a commitment after which they will abandon them to their fate.
Dauda alleged that the plight of the residents does not concern the developers who have always claimed that the roads and other infrastructural problems within their various estates would be fixed but take no step towards achieving it.
Chairman, Lokogoma phase II Residents Association, Stanley Ugwu, told Inside Abuja that most of the affected buildings were bought from developers of the mass housing scheme.
Ugwu, who tried to exonerate buyers of the affected buildings from blame, said that due diligence was conducted before buying the houses, but the fact that they were built on water ways was concealed.
He however, appealed to FCTA to assist the affected owners to get compensation from the developers, adding that it is only the administration that could enforce such action.
Dr. Joseph Nnorom, the Chair