No fewer than two hundred tippers were used to block the Enugu- Awka – Onitsha Expressway yesterday for about three hours when members of the Tipper Drivers Association protested what they called over taxation, intimation and smashing of their vehicles by alleged government revenue agents.  The protesters who chanted protest songs also blocked the main entrance gate to the government House demanding to see the Governor, Dr Willie Obiano who incidentally was away on an official trip abroad. All efforts to get the protesters to leave the expressway proved abortive for hours until the arrival of the Secretary of State Government Prof Solo Chukwulobelu who urged them to clear from the Federal Government highway.  The leader of the association for Enugu and Anambra states Mr Emmanuel Ezeokafor, who spoke with reporterssaid: ” We are peace-loving people and our protest as you can see is not a violent one. We are here to register our unhappiness over the imposition of several levies and all manner of extortion by some people who claim to be government revenues agents.  “We won this case of illegal taxation at the Festival High Court and government called us for a meeting and we agreed to dialogue with government but we’re still discussing with government when some people who claim to be government revenue’s agents came to collect taxes and levies from our members.  “If you refuse to pay, they will beat you up and shatter the windscreen of your tipper. So far about 17 of our members have sustained various injuries while two were locked up at a police station. Ezeokafor further alleged that “before we were paying N100. 00 later it went up to N200.00 and now we pay between N700.00 N1,500.00, and one Ogechukwu who claims to be a government’s agent has been using his position to intimidate out members who refuse to pay.  “Our demand is that we do not want any so-called government agents who have been extorting money from us. We want to discuss with government on how much we should be paying and we will collect the money ourselves and pay directly to the accounts of the government.”