The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has begun the local production of uniforms for its officers and personnel, as a way of promoting local content and reducing capital flight from the country. EMMANUEL ONANI reports  As part of measures at revamping the country’s textile and garment industries, President Muhammadu Buhari had a few weeks ago, made an order for the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN), security and para-military agencies to patronise the Nigerian Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) Industry Sector. The order was made pursuant to the government’s desperate efforts at growing the economy through the promotion of local contents initiatives. Consistent with its mandate of carrying out lawful directives, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), through the Nigeria Air Force Investment Limited (NAFIL), has acquired 34 new high-end industrial machines for its Tailoring Workshop. This is in addition to the 106 already in use, to prepare it for large-scale production of uniforms. The NAFIL has since acquired full certification from Ministry of Labour and Employment, to run the Tailoring Workshop, as a training centre for tailoring and garment making for the N-Power Programme of the Federal Government. With this accreditation, the NAFIL Tailoring Workshop would be able to award Trade Test Certificates to its graduates. The development is with a view to giving effect to the presidential order in aid of the CTG. Inside Abuja gathered that before the executive order came into force, the NAF had set machinery in motion to begin the production of uniforms, with the establishment of Tailoring Workshop. Since its establishment in June, 2017, the NAF’s tailoring workshop has produced over 62,000 uniforms for its personnel. According to the NAF, the production of another set of 17,900 uniforms, has reached an advanced stage of completion. In essence, a total of 79, 900 home-made uniforms would have been available for distribution among officers and personnel, since commencement of operation. The Director of Public Relations and Information (DOPRI), Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, in a chat with Inside Abuja, said the Tailoring Workshop from where the uniforms were being sewn, was powered by the NAF Investment Limited (NAFIL). He said the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, had expressed satisfaction with efforts being made to ensure full compliance with the executive order, during his working visit to the Workshop. “The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, yesterday, 18 July 2019, undertook a tour of the Nigerian Air Force Investment Limited (NAFIL) Tailoring Workshop in the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Base, Kaduna, for an on-the-spot assessment of facilities to ensure full compliance with the Federal Government’s directive for the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) and other security agencies to patronise the Nigerian Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) Industry Sector. “Conducting the CAS on the tour of facilities at the Tailoring Workshop, the Managing Director (MD) NAFIL, Air Commodore Uchechi Nwangwu, stated that the Workshop, which was established in June 2017, has a staff strength of 68, comprising 38 NAF personnel and 30 civilians, who are dependents of personnel from the Base that were trained in the facility. “He said the Workshop had so far produced over 62,000 pairs of uniforms for the NAF and was in the process of completing the production of another 17,900. The MD further noted that as part of its efforts to meet the requirements for full compliance with the government’s directive, the Workshop, which was certified by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity as a Trade Test Centre in September 2018, had acquired 34 additional high-end industrial machines bringing its inventory of machines and equipment to 140. “He said this had raised the Workshop’s optimal production capacity from 5,000 to 6,500 uniforms per month. He also mentioned that four of the tailors were recently trained in advanced tailoring techniques in China after their initial training by NAF Technical Partners in Aba, Abia State. “At the end of the tour, the CAS expressed satisfaction with NAFIL’s efforts as well as the immense progress made towards ensuring total self-reliance in terms of uniforms production. He said the Workshop could now go beyond sewing regular uniforms to the production of flying and technicians’ suits as well as other uniform items and accoutrements. “Air Marshal Abubakar stated that NAF tailoring services would be further expanded by opening two other centres in Makurdi and Lagos to meet the requirements of the Service”, the DOPRI said. Meanwhile, the NAF, in its determination to ensure seamless production of uniforms, is “perfecting” partnership plans with Woollen and Synthetic Textile Manufacturing Limited, Ikeja, Lagos. The NAF’s spokesperson, who made the disclosure in a separate statement sent to Inside Abuja, said already, a team from Headquarters NAF, led by the Chief of Logistics, Air Vice Marshal Muhammed Yakubu, has visited the Company, to inspect facilities at the factory as well as assess the capability of the Company for mass production of high quality NAF uniform fabrics. The DOPRI said the fabrics, some of which were hitherto imported from abroad, would subsequently be sewn into NAF uniforms of various sizes at the NAF Investment Limited (NAFIL) Tailoring Workshop, Kaduna. It is expected that the NAF’s partnership with the Company, and others in the Nigerian CTG Industry, would further enhance the nation’s self-reliance in terms of uniforms production whilst also boosting employment opportunities for Nigerians.