Lagos state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has tasked 2,234 pilgrims from the state who will be performing the 2019 hajj exercise to sustain the culture of excellence and discipline which the state is known for during this year hajj exercise. This was even as the state’s Amirul- Hajj, Dr AbdulLateef AbdulHakeem said that Lagos will commence airlifting of its pilgrims by July, saying that every necessary arrangement to organise a hitch-free hajj exercise had been put in place. Speaking at a seminar organised to sensitise the intending pilgrims Governor Sanwo-Olu said that the state pilgrim board had carved a niche for itself among the committees of pilgrims boards in the country, urging the pilgrims to remember that the pilgrimage to Mecca and and Medina was spiritual one and a fifth pillar of Islam that requires good conduct. Governor Sanwo-Olu, who spoke through the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, also expressed confidence that this year hajj would be better than the previous years. He assured that every necessary arrangement would be made to ensure that Lagos pilgrims experience a hitchfree exercise in the 2019 hajj. Sanwo-Olu said: “I want to assure you that the Lagos State government will continue to provide the necessary assistance to the board with view to ensuring the hitch-free and successful pilgrimage. I have no doubt in my mind that this year’s pilgrimage will be better than last year as we have chosen our Amirul-hajj, Dr Abdul Hakeem AbdulLateef, under whose leadership as the immediate past commissioner for Home Affairs, Lagos State recorded outstanding feats with several awards to show for it.” Urging the intending pilgrims to eschew all what is forbidden by the Saudi Arabia authorities, Sanwo-Olu said: “I implore you all to obey the rules and regulations of the board, take caution respect the state representative, obey instructions be orderly and avoid negative tendencies capable of tarnishing the good image of the state and the nation.” Also speaking, the state Amirul-Hajj, Dr Abdulateef said would sustain the tempo of excellence hajj operation in the 2019, saying that Governor Sanwo- Olu had approved everything necessary to ensure the pilgrims is given top priority. Dr Abdulateef, who said beyond refund of money to the pilgrims, N141,000, Governor Sanwo-Olu had also given the board the mandate to ensure the security and welfare of the citizen whether at home or abroad is prioritised at all times. “The governor is interested in the happiness of the pilgrims that is why is giving every necessary support,” he added. At the seminar, Lagos State bagged the 2018 most organised and disciplined Nigerian contingents award by the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria after winning 7 of the 8 awards in 2016. According to him, the award presented to the State by the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria as the best organised was a clear indication that the state has the culture of representing the state and in deed Nigeria well abroad. Dr AbdulLateef, who commended the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria for reducing the 2019 cost of hajj fees, advised the intending pilgrims to proceed to the Holy pilgrimage by remembering Nigeria in prayers and ensure they intensify their level of peity.