●Nigeria ranks 3rd in connectivity index  Incidences of multiple taxation in telecommunications sector will continue to deny many people access to ICT services, the trade body of mobile operators, GSMA, has said.
The body, in its 2019 Mobile Economy West Africa report, noted that the taxes are also creating obstacles to investments in broadband networks.
Specifically, in Nigeria, GSMA said telecommunications-specific taxes are hampering the efforts of operators to deepen ICT penetration. With that, the country ranks third in West Africa in terms of connectivity. Nigeria came behind Cape Verde, which ranked first and Ghana (second) with 45.9 points.
The GSMA’s Mobile Connectivity Index measures the performance of countries against the key enablers of mobile Internet adoption: infrastructure, affordability, consumer readiness and content. The body said the data could help the mobile industry and other stakeholders understand where to focus action to drive increased mobile internet adoption.
The two telecoms associations in Nigeria, Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) and Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), have also been expressing concerns over the problem of multiple taxation in the sector, noting that it has become a disincentive to further investments.
To address the concerns, GSMA urged the governments of Nigeria and other West African countries to reduce or remove mobile-specific taxes, noting that the resulting social impact and long-term positive impact on gross domestic product would outweigh any short-term reduction in contributions to governments’ budgets. “Discriminatory, sector-specific taxes deter the take-up of mobile services and slow the adoption of ICT,” it said in the report. “Lowering such taxes benefits consumers and businesses and boosts socio-economic development.”
It noted that governments often levy special taxes to finance spending in sectors where private investment is lacking, adding however, that the approach is inefficient. “Fiscal policy that applies a special tax to the telecommunications sector causes distortions that deter private spending and, in the end, diminish welfare by preventing the realisation of the positive spill-overs that mobile provides throughout the economy,” it added.
“Emerging economies need to align their approach to taxing mobile broadband with national ICT objectives. If broadband connectivity is a key social and economic objective, taxes must not create an obstacle to investment in broadband networks or adoption and usage of mobile broadband by consumers. Lowering the taxation burden on the sector increases mobile take-up and use, creating a multiplier effect in the wider economy.”
Meanwhile, the telecoms body has advised regulators to minimise regulations in the area of quality of service. According to the body, competitive markets with minimal regulatory intervention are best able to deliver the quality of mobile service customers expect. It noted that setting quality of service parameters for the operators would not help the industry.
“Regulation that sets a minimum quality of service is disproportionate and unnecessary,” it said. “The quality of service experienced by mobile consumers is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond the control of operators, such as the device type, application and propagation environment. Defining specific quality targets is neither proportionate nor practical.”
GSMA further noted that mobile networks are technically different from fixed networks, as they make use of shared resources to a greater extent and are more traffic-sensitive. “Mobile operators need to deal with continually changing traffic patterns and congestion, within the limits imposed by finite network capacity, where one user’s traffic can have a significant effect on overall network performance.”
“The commercial, operational and technological environment in which mobile services are offered is continuing to develop,” the association said. “Mobile operators must have the freedom to manage and prioritise traffic on their networks. Regulation, which rigidly defines a particular service quality level is unnecessary and is likely to impact the development of these services.”
It added that competitive markets with differentiated commercial offers and information that allows consumers to make an informed choice deliver the best outcomes. Besides, it said that if regulatory authorities are concerned about quality of service, they should engage in dialogue with the industry to find solutions that strike the right balance on transparency of quality of service.