Super Eagles’ forward, Alex Iwobi told AJIBADE OLUSESAN in Egypt that the team would work hard to improve in the attack and Nigerians will see a lot of difference when they confront the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon on Saturday.  What is your assessment of the Super Eagles’ performance so far in the Africa Cup of Nations?
I will not say our performance has been great but we have not done badly; every team in AFCON is difficult to come up against, we played three matches, we were able to get six points which is enough for us to qualify for the next round. I can’t say we have done great but we are good, we won two games before the loss to Madagascar. What really happened to the team in that Madagascar tie?
The loss was a hard one to take, Madagascar was a very tactical team, they were very disciplined; I think it was a wakeup call, it was a subtle reminder for us that no team is going to be a walk in the park in this competition. We know we have to work so hard to get the job done. Would you say, you guys underrated the Madagascan team?
I don’t think we underrated them, we could not have gone out there to look down on any team; I feel we should have pushed harder, apply more force in that game. How did you feel throughout that night?
I am a professional; I don’t like to dwell on negative stuffs, I try to look at positive side. The defeat was a hard one to take but we want to use it as motivation to go out there and do well in other games. And how will you describe the atmosphere in camp after that defeat?
Of course we tried to have some little talks; everybody knows we have to fight not just for ourselves but our family and our country. We know the stakes are high now. You will face the defending champions Cameroon in the round of 16, how do you think the Eagles can beat a tough side like that?
We have been preparing so hard for whichever team we are going to face in next round; we know Cameroon have great players, they are the current champions of this competition, we will not be afraid, we will go into the game with confidence and have fun. There are four matches for the Super Eagles to play if they must win this competition; can you guys go all the way?
Of course, every team has the chance of winning this competition; we have got a lot of quality in our team, there are great players in the squad so we can do it, We know we have to focus on each game as they come, we have to work hard to win those games one after the other. Two goals in three matches is not a good statistics, how can you guys start firing again?
Obviously, we have been working on shooting in front of goal a bit more; it’s not easy to break an African side’s defence, everyone want to play, everyone wants to defend their country. We have a lot of attacking flair and hopefully we will begin to see a lot of goals as from our next match. You play as a winger a lot of time for the Eagles and the coach has asked you to play in the midfield here, which area of the pitch one are you more comfortable to operate from?
Last season, I played a lot as a winger at Arsenal because that is where the Manager wanted me to play from; but when I was growing up at the club I used to play more from the midfield but anywhere I am asked to play, defence, attack, midfield, I will do my best for my team. The strength of Cameroon lies in the physicality of their players, Madagascar showed a lot of power, and don’t you think it is another major battle for the Eagles? We have got players who play in Europe and Africa here; I think we have quite a number of us who are used to playing physical football too. We know how to run and be physical then with still got our flair too; I know we will be able to withstand them. Is there any difference between playing for the Super Eagles and your club Arsenal? Playing for Nigeria and Arsenal are different because of the Managers and the settings; when I come here I think I am given the chance to express myself a lot more than when I am at Arsenal. The Nigerian coach gives me the license to operate, I feel a lot more freedom than when I am in my club. There was a time you were touted to take over from Mesut Ozil as Arsenal’s number 10 do you see yourself doing that soon?
If I can be able to remain at Arsenal next season that will be great but with the focus of the coach I don’t think I will be able to play that Number 10, I think it will be more of wing role for me but even if I am told to play as a defender I will do so. You signed off last season with a fantastic goal in that 4-1 loss to Chelsea in the Europa Cup final, tell us about the goal
When I wanted to be introduced into the game the Manager told me I should try to create chances and if I get a chance I should try and score goals, and the opportunity came for me to score and it turned out to be a good one. Again, it is unfortunate because that was not the kind of result that we wanted. You are a handsome man, do you have a Nigerian girlfriend are you thinking about getting married to a Nigerian?
I am still young; I don’t know who I am going to get married to. I grew up in England I haven’t really seen any one I am really interested in even though we have many Nigerians in England. I still have a long way to go in my career, I am still young and I am not really thinking about that for now. How about when you come home, don’t you have some Nigerians that come around you?
Of course there are many Nigerians who come around; there are males, there are females too but I am not looking at all that, I am focused on football.