Authorities in Democratic Republic of Congo have appealed for calm after an evangelical preacher died of Ebola in the eastern city of Goma, the first recorded case of the disease in the key urban hub in a nearly year-old epidemic. “Unfortunately, I can confirm that the patient died,” the governor of North Kivu, Carly Nzanzu Kasivita, told reporters on Tuesday. Goma, a border city with a population of one million, lies next to the Rwandan town of Gisenyi and has transport links to other parts of the DRC and beyond. The UN’s World Health Organisation (WHO) described the case as a “potential game-changer” and said it would reconvene a key panel to see whether the outbreak required a heightened global response. Rwanda, meanwhile, said it would step up border monitoring and urged its citizens to avoid “unnecessary” travel to the eastern DRC. Earlier, Nzanzu Kasivita issued a statement saying the new case had been “detected at an early stage but also was isolated immediately, avoiding any further contamination”. But, he added, “I call on the population of the city of Goma and its outskirts to keep calm… (and) cooperate with response teams, by observing hygiene and prevention measures and notifying any suspected case of Ebola,” he added. According to the latest health ministry figures issued on Saturday, 1,655 people have died from the haemorrhagic virus since August 1 last year, when the disease broke out in North Kivu and spread to neighbouring Ituri. Nearly 700 people have been cured, and more than 160,000 been vaccinated, reports France24. But efforts to roll back Ebola have been hampered by insecurity in a region plagued by militia groups, who have attacked treatment centres. Local hostility to health workers trying to trace and isolate people in contact with Ebola patients is another hurdle. Two more Ebola workers were murdered in their homes in the North Kivu town of Beni, the ministry said. Evangelical preacher The Goma patient was described as a pastor who had been on a trip to another town, Butembo, one of the towns hardest hit by the outbreak. There, he preached at seven churches and regularly touched worshippers, “including the sick”, the health ministry said Sunday. His symptoms first surfaced last Tuesday, it said. On Friday he took a bus back to Goma from Butembo, along with 18 other passengers and the driver. He went through several health checkpoints on the road “but did not seem to show signs of the disease. However, at each checkpoint, he wrote down different family names and forenames on the passenger list, which probably indicates a will to hide his identity and state of health,” the ministry said. When he arrived back in Goma on Sunday morning, he went to a clinic because he had started to become feverish, the ministry said. “Given that the patient was quickly identified, as well as all the passengers on the bus from Butembo, the risk of the disease spreading in the city of Goma is low,” it said. The pastor was swiftly taken back to Butembo, which is better prepared for handling Ebola cases than Goma, the authorities said. The WHO said response teams had so far identified 60 people who had been in contact with the preacher, 30 of whom had now been vaccinated. 