 Two former internationals, Kadiri Ikhana and Edema Fuludu have said that the Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr is not competent to be in the position. The two former players now administrator and coach stressed that a technically sound manager could have taken the Eagle beyond the semifinal stage of the ongoing 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. They both decried how Algeria outplayed the Eagles in one of the semifinals of the Africa’s biggest football showcase. Ikhana also castigated the Nigeria Football Federation‘s plan to send Rohr on refresher course in Germany, saying it was waste of funds. NFF President, Amaju Pinnick, only on Tuesday said that the German will not be fired but allowed to go on a refresher course with German Bundesliga side FC Bayern Munich, immediately after the tournament. Ikhana, a member of the 1980 winning team said the football authority should have invested the funds into indigenous coaches especially the young coaches. “If you feel Rohr has not done well, why not ask him to leave, that is the honourable thing to do,” Ikhana said. “Sending him on refresher training is what I cannot fathom out. Is it not a waste of resources? We have so many ex internationals in this country who are coaches. Why not send some of them on coaching clinics? After all, when they come back, it will be to the benefit our football generally rather than on a foreigner.” Fuludu however commended the players for using their experience to get to the semifinals of the competition. He averred that if the head of the technical; crew had done enough, that Nigeria would have got to the finals of the competition. “There was no technical input from Geront Rohr. It was mere luck and personal efforts of the players that took them to the semifinals. Looking at the game between Nigeria and Algeria, the North African side took the war to our side in the first 45 in the first 45 minutes of the game our players were not in the game you can count how many shorts we had at the goal.  “Getting to the semifinals in a competition of this magnitude, one should expect a tough game, so there was need for the technical crew to bring in all their expertise. I was very happy with the way boys played against the dreaded indomitable Lions of Cameroon, one would have expected them to go into the semifinals game with the same winning spirit. Also, against Argentina in the World Cup, we lost towards the dying minutes, why do they always lose hope at the dying minutes, football is played football is played for 90 minutes, a serious team don’t give up until  the last whistle. So our technical crew has a lot of work to do.”