Anthony Kan Onwordi popularly known as Toni Kan, is an award-winning Nigerian writer, journalist, teacher and PR expert. He is the author of the collection of short stories, Nights of a Creaking Bed, noted for exploring themes on African sexuality. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, he shares his thoughts on Nollywood, writing, fake lifestyles, piracy and other issues   How would you rate the movie industry currently?
The Nigerian movie industry is undergoing a sea change. About five years ago, I asked Kunle Afolayan what he thought about neo-Nollywood. He had scoffed saying there is nothing like neo-Nollywood. Well, here we are today and he is one of those in the vanguard. So, what is neo-Nollywood? Bigger budgets, better directing and acting, cleaner post production, better quality all round etc. What do you think is the best way to curb piracy?
There is no way to curb piracy. None. Every time I get Hollywoood movies for review they come with warnings against piracy and threats that the FBI will arrest offenders. That is America. The question we should be asking is how do we make sure pirates are punished? Piracy cannot be eradicated but we can curb it by punishing offenders. Tell us your most memorable day or days in your career…
Being a writer has opened many doors for me and I won’t trade it for anything else. There have been a lot but there are two I remember. One was when I went for a job interview at a bank. At the end of the interview the manager asked me what asset I was bringing to the bank. I said my name. He said what happened to your name. I said that’s my biggest asset. He said how. I said people know my name. He said, really, picked up the phone and called his wife. “There is a man here named Toni Kan, he says you know him.” I heard the wife scream. “Ahh, I am a big fan.”
After the call the man looked at me and said “So, you think you are a star now?” Where do you see Nollywood in the next five years?
Still here. Maybe an Oscar. But still here with better quality movies. What is your view about the dying culture of cinema?
Is there a dying culture? I think there is resurgence. Lagos has close to 50 screens now and growing. We didn’t have up to 20% of that 10 years ago. I think that Silverbird started a revolution which has taken off. We now have Genesis, Film one and co. How would collaboration and partnership help the growth of film production in Nigeria?
I don’t know what you mean by collaboration but I think that the time has come for Nollywood to begin to mine Nigeria’s fecund literary landscape for quality stories that can then be adapted to movies. Nollywood should collaborate with Nigerian writers instead of relying on weak stories as is the case right now. That’s the kind of collaboration I want to see. Fake lifestyle has become popular among entertainers. What is your view about this?
People will always want to fake it before they make it. It is normal with human beings. My take is, just learn to be yourself because as someone said, every other person is taken. Personally, I am not in competition with anyone and that is reason why I can sleep well at night. It’s a good way to leave.
How have you been able to handle this?
I am myself. I don’t compete with anybody. I am not a celebrity who has to buy a new outfit every week. I don’t have to fly business class on every trip except a client is paying. I don’t have to drink golden wine or whatever. I live a simple life. Are you fulfilled as a writer?
I am very fulfilled. Writing has been a blessing from my time as a journalist at Hints to a bank worker and PR person. It has opened doors for me, paid me handsomely and put me before kings and princes. Last year I spoke at the FT Africa conference in London alongside Dangote and Mo Ibrahim. I have just been invited back this year. This is a conference CEOs lobby to attend and which costs over £2,000. I go because I am a writer. Writers, like artistes, are said to be promiscuous. Is it right then to call you a lover boy?
That is a blanket statement o and a mischievous one. Ahh, I am not a lover boy at all. I am just a well-loved man. Have you ever been embarrassed?
Ahh. I have o. I remember once when I went to interview a woman. I was doing a story about widowhood back at Hints magazine. After I introduced myself and told her why I was there she looked up and said “I am not a widow.”
I said but I was told you are a widow.
She said no, I am not a widow.
I was so embarrassed I couldn’t even get up from my seat. Any regrets?
Every human being must have regrets because life is full of ups and downs. So, yes but overall, I think I am 90% happy with my life. I am very grateful to God for how things have turned out. Apart from fame, has your success as a writer translated into a lot of money for you?
You know I write biographies. I am probably Nigeria’s most active biographer. In the past 10 years, my partner, Peju Akande and I have written 10 biographies. So, yes, writing translates into money for me. And you know, everything I do, whether teaching or writing or PR, they all have a common thread – writing. How do you unwind?
Before now, I would have said reading, listening to music, walking or hiking but now, writing is always work because even when I am reading it would most probably be for a book review page. That said, I like music, walking and chilling. I work hard and I play hard. What inspired ‘The Carnivorous City’?
It is a long story. I always wanted to write the definitive Lagos novel and in my research I found out that novels about Lagos are usually about either the mainland or about the island. Consider Sefi Atta’s Everything Good Will Come and The Bead Collector which are about the island or Cyprian Ekwensi’s ‘People of the City’/Helon Habila’s ‘Waiting for Angel’/Maik Nwosu’s ‘Alpha Songs’ which are all about the shanties and ghettoes. I wanted to write a novel that would have its setting on both parts of the mainland. It was a bit difficult trying to do that. So, first I looked for a story and I hit on the Cain and Abel binary but the Lagos angle remained elusive. Then one night I was at a bar in Ikoyi with a Kenyan friend and these yahoo boys walked in with blood shot eyes and sagging trousers. They also had girls draped across their arms. Looking at them, I could see that they clearly belonged to the mainland but here they were flossing on the island. So, I thought it would be nice to have a character who makes money from the mainland but lives on the island. Then I got him missing and sent his brother to search for him. Voila! Did you really set out to be a writer?
I wanted to be a doctor just like every little boy doing well in school. But after writing JAMB three or times and getting admitted to study Biochemistry or Chemistry, I decided to switch to English because I had done literature in secondary school. It was tough switching because the HOD didn’t want a science student in his department. But when I got in it turned out to be a blessing. Out of the 48 books we were given for ENL 101: Introduction to Fiction, I had read 47. So, I ended up best student with a scholarship. I also graduated at the top of my class with the Best Final Year project. It was God. Who really is Toni Kan?
I am a writer, teacher, PR expert and father of eight children. Three biological, five adopted. Why have you not gone into writing scripts for movies?
Nollywood has not asked me. When they do I will, but in the past three years I have helped tinker at least seven scripts that have been made into movies.