O akland Raiders quarterback Derek Carr preached Sunday evening at Jesus Culture Sacramento in Sacramento, California. During his message, he said that he has seen people get supernaturally healed firsthand and gave all glory to God.   “I’m not here to impress you, okay?” Carr said. “And I’m not here to convince you of anything, okay? I’m just telling you what I’ve seen and what I know, and I know that God still heals today. I know that God still delivers today. I know He can set people free today. I’ve seen it happen.”   Carr said he saw people get supernaturally healed while attending a conference in Fresno, California, where Bryan and Katie Torwalt were leading worship.   “I want to tell you what God has been doing in my life,” Carr said. “[I have] seen the lame walking and people being healed all over the place … We just had a conference down in Fresno that Bryan and Katie blessed us and they came and they did a wonderful job. And they were actually on stage when there was actually a man—I don’t know if they got to see—but there was a man over on the side of the stage as they were worshipping. We prayed for healing all over the place. People were healed all over the place. And we saw this man’s hand open for the first time in five years. There’s another man in a wheelchair that began to stand up and dance while they were playing their music.”   Carr praised the congregation of Jesus Culture and thanked them for giving him the opportunity to preach—following in the footsteps of his grandfather, who was a pastor.   “I always want to say thank you,” Carr said. “Thank you not just for seeing me as someone who can throw a football and loves Jesus and hopefully he says something good, you know? Thank you for seeing the call of God on my life and trusting me standing here. My grandfather was a pastor before he passed away for his whole entire life. And he always told me, ‘Derek, if you preach someday… whoever you let speak on your platform, just make sure you can trust it.’ And so thank you. I’m honored.”   Carr also said he intended to leave quietly at the end of the service rather than hang around, so as to not distract from God.   “I’m just here to be obedient,” Carr says. “I just want you to know who I am. I am not here to take pictures and sign autographs. If you catch me at Chipotle, no problem. But when I’m at church, there is One Idol. There is One Person that I look at. And that’s Jesus. So if I dip out of here at the end of this, please just respect why that is. It’s because I’m going to prepare a pathway, kind of like John the Baptist. I’m going to prepare a way, and I’m going to get right out of the way and point you to Jesus.  That’s all. That’s all that I’m here to do. I didn’t come here for you to applaud for me. I didn’t come for you to pat me on my back. I didn’t come for any of that. I really couldn’t care less, with all due respect. Why I came is so that you can have an opportunity to get a word deep within you, that you would be so filled up with the supernatural that when people look at you, they say, ‘That is amazing. I must go see what that is.’