Kunle Olayeni, Abeokuta  The Ogun State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal on Saturday dismissed an application of the state chapter of the Labour Party (LP) against the electoral victory of Governor Dapo Abiodun of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The tribunal, led by Justice Yusuf Halilu, gave its verdict, saying it lacked jurisdiction to reverse itself by relisting the petition. It will be recalled that the Abayomi Arabambi-led LP dragged the APC, Abiodun and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) before the tribunal over alleged unlawful exclusion of the party during the March 9, 2019 governorship election in the state. On June 21, the tribunal dismissed the party’s petition for lack of diligent prosecution and also awarded a N500,000 compensatory fine against the petitioners to be paid to Abiodun. Then, the petitioners as well as their witnesses and counsel were all absent in court on the day earlier agreed for the commencement of trial. Soon after the dismissal, the LP filed an application before the tribunal to relist the petition challenging Abiodun’s election. Governorship candidate of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) in Ogun State, Hon. Adekunle Akinlade, and his party, yesterday filed a motion ex-parte, seeking an order to compel the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to grant them access to inspect documents used for the March 9 gubernatorial election in the state.… In "News" Collins Okeke is the Senior Legal/Programme Officer of Human Rights Law Service (HURILAWS), an affiliate of Olisa Agbakoba Legal. He speaks in this interview on management of post-election disputes by tribunals and courts using the proceedings of the Anambra State Governorship Election Tribunal as a reference. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  … In "Interview" Rivers State Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal yesterday upheld the victory of Governor Nyesom Wike of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) dismissing the petition filed by Biomakpabo Awara, the governorship candidate of the African Action Congress (AAC) governorship candidate in the 2019 general election. The three-man panel led by Justice K.… In "News"