 Super Eagles utility player, Ola Aina, has said the inability of some of the players in the team to rest after a long season has affected their performances at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt.
The Nigeria team has struggled to two 1-0 victories against Burundi and Madagascar before losing 2-0 to debutants, Madagascar, in their final game of the group.
Speaking ahead of the quarterfinal game against the Indomitable Lions of Cameroon on Saturday, the Torino FC of Italy said they are struggling after a long season.
According to him, the most important thing is to get the job done and get the require results as the team continue their quest for the country’s fourth AFCON title.
“At the end of the day, we have to try our best and see how we can get the job done,” Aina said.
“We need to put in a lot of efforts, sometimes you might not win games in marvellous or spectacular way, but the most important thing is to get the job done.
“We are going to put in our best, some of us had endured a long season and it is hard on the body but we are still trying to dig deep and get the result at the end of the day.”
Speaking ahead of the quarterfinal game against the defending champions, Aina said Nigerians should expect a great performance on Saturday.
Aina added that they are not going to approach the game with the mind-set of the last two games involving the two sides where they Eagles secured four points against the Lions over two legs during the qualifier for the last FIFA World Cup in Russia, scoring five goals and conceding one over two legs.
He said: “It is going to be a good game, Cameroon is a very good side, likewise Nigeria, hopefully we should get some goals but it is definitely going to be a good game, I want Nigerians to stick with us and we will try our best to make them happy. “We all know that the game is not going to be the same as the last one (World Cup qualifier), maybe we now have few additions from both teams and for us, we are not approaching the game same way as the last one, thinking that we can beat them because of the last results. “Football is a funny game where anything can happen, and the team is taking all the game seriously and hopefully we can get the job done on Saturday.”