 All roads leading to the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos Saturday, July 20 as the popular Clergy and founder, Esther Ajayi Foundation, Rev. Mother Esther Abimbola Ajayi debuts her annual ‘Celebrate The Comforter’ programme in Nigeria.  The London-based prophetess and philanthropist, who returned from another pilgrimage to Israel earlier in the week, had assured everyone that the programme will be hitch-free and successful.  Ajayi, who is the Convener of the ‘Celebrate The Comforter’ programme which seeks to unite the Celestial Church of Christ and the Cherubim and Seraphim Church, noted that the event featuring leading preachers, celebrities and top gospel musicians would be an annual occasion.  Speaking after a lively reception at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, the prophetess stated that her visit to Israel was to prepare her for the enormous task ahead and she has been buoyed by the spiritual uplifting garnered while in the holy land.  The Rev. Mother, who is also the General Overseer, Love Of Christ Church, Clapham, London, said she was elated that her efforts to unite the White garment churches have started to yield fruits.  She stated that the mega Christian programme is open to people of all denominations and faiths is specifically designed to glorify God, celebrate unity and preach peace.  In her words: “This is the first time the programme will be holding in Nigeria and I can tell you that the country will never be the same again. Come and join us for an unforgettable day of life changing prayer, preaching, praise and celebration in honour of God.”  On Friday, the venue of the Lagos evangelical explosion was wearing a new look with participants from United States, Canada, United Kingdom, other European countries and worshippers from the 36 States of the federation joyously and ready for the for the programme.   The annual programme has always been held in London, United Kingdom until last year (2018) when the event was held at the United Palace, New York, USA.  The United States programme was attended by former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, popular journalist and columnist, Bashorun Dele Momodu and the legendary Evangelist Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi among others.  