…as Gov Bello tasks players on positive side of defeat   N iger Tornadoes Football Club of Minna,  on Tuesday fired 11 players as part of efforts to bolster the team ahead of its first leg of CAF Confederations Cup and to gain promotion to the country’s premier league.  The 2018/19 Aiteo Cup runners up and Nigeria’s second representative in this year’s CAF Confederations Cup in a statement signed by its media officer, Alhassan Mohammed Kutigi said, the decision was reached by management and technical crew of the club. According to him “there is the need to bolster the team ahead of our CAF Confederations Cup fixture with Santoba FC of Guinea and also the 2019/20 football season”.   Accordingly, he said “those affected are, Olayinka Yusuf, Gwaza Lorliam, Ayo Adetola, Moses Ugwu, Mubarak Sai’d, Mohammed Hussaini, Abashya Gyemini, Chizoba Ndukwe, Obinna Jacob, Hassan Saba and Friday Kaburu.   “We are retaining the following players, Mustapha Aliko (captain), Reuben Ogbonnaya, Dosso Saib, Bashir Azado, Ismaila Sarki, Ahmadu Liman, Mustapha Jibrin and Erick Frimpong.”  Meanwhile, Niger State Governor, Abubakar Bello, has told the players to allow the defeat in the finals of AITEO Cup to spur them to better showing  they prepare to represent Nigeria in the CAF Confederation Cup.  In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mrs. Mary Berje, Governor Bello described the players as gallant losers who gave everything to win the most prestigious trophy in the league but lost out in the penalty shoot-out.  Accordingly, he said “I congratulate you all for a job well-done; many did not think you will excel in the tournament. You defied all odds and made it through to the finals and lost gallantly.  “See yourselves as true champions and we believe you can make it in the continental tournament when you represent Nigeria in the Confederation Cup; be good ambassadors of the state, go and conquer Africa”.  Governor Abubakar Sani Bello said the team has shown that they are hungry for success haven reached the AITEO finals twice in three years, losing to Akwa United in 2017 on penalty shoot-out 3-2 and this recent one, explaining that it was a clear demonstration of the players desire to become champions. He urged them to see their 3-4 lose on penalty shoot-out as the turning point so as it will propel them to win the Confederation Cup.