Worried by the upsurge in the reported cases of rape, the Deji of Akure, Oba Ogunlade Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, yesterday asked the people to bring suspected rapits to his palace for punishment. The monarch spoke before the commencement of a rally by various stakeholders tagged: “A Walk Against Rape,” initiated by the Office of the Wife of the Ondo State Governor, Mrs. Betty Anyanwun-Akeredolu. The rally, which attracted representatives of many Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and interest groups, was led by the state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Mrs. Titi Adeyemi. Aladetoyinbo said the spate of rape cases had reached alarming level that all hands must be on the deck to checkmate it. Also, the monarch advocated life imprisonment for any person convicted of rape. The Deji said the institution was ready to introduce traditional punishment to rapists. He said: “Bring any person suspected of rape to the palace. We have special water that we shall give to the suspect. Once the person drinks the water, the curse shall be on him for life. “You don’t have to catch the person in action, once you suspect anybody, we shall make him to drink the water before we hand him over to the police for proper action but I will deal with the issue first. “I am also advocating that rapists should be sentenced to life imprisonment.” The monarch said the traditional institution shall condemn the scourge under any disguise. Participants, moved from the palace through popular Oyemekun-Adesida Road to the ‘A’ Division Police Station, condemning rape with various inscriptions and messages. Some of the inscriptions read: “Rapist Should Rot in Jail,” “Rapists Are Animals,” “No Mercy For Rapist,” “Safe My Dignity, I am Your Daughter”and “Judiciary Should Fast-track Rape Cases,” among others. Addressing the gathering, Adeyemi, who represented Anyanwun-Akeredolu, said everybody must come together to speak and take action against rape. She advised parents to look after their girl-child and protect them against any form of abuse.