T he Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has debunked rumours that its leadership is enmeshed in crisis.  In a statement signed by its Director, Legal and Communication, Kwamkur Vondip, the Christian body said the aim of such people was to project the president as a bad leader and rubbish his achievements.  “We must clearly state that the leadership structure of CAN, starting from president-in-council to the NEC (National Executive Council) and all other structures have confidence in the leadership and performance of the president, despite the human-inflicted challenges.  “We had released our position on the false allegations raised against him after a panel constituted by CAN NEC with nominees to the panel provided by the leadership of each bloc. While the CAN president appeared before the panel to prove his innocence with documentary evidence, the accuser disappeared into the thin air till today,” CAN say.  The association posited that leadership of CAN under Ayokunle came at a time Christians were going through very hard times with attacks on the church from different angles, particularly the Middle Belt region of the country.  It added that persistent attacks without corresponding response from the government made the leadership of CAN insist on seeing President Muhammadu Buhari on two to three occasions.  “The issues affecting the nation negatively, especially the church, which range from high level of insecurity to the call for the release of Leah Sharibu, the call for Nigeria to dissociate from membership of Islamic organisations because we perceived such is religious partisanship and a breach of the constitution, were tabled before the president for action.  “We equally showed our displeasure to the seeming violence perpetrated by the Fulani herdsmen with a sense of impunity because they were not brought to book. We presented the issue of imbalance or skewed appointments into government positions, particularly that of the security chiefs which needed correction.”  The association called on all Christians and well-meaning Nigerians to disregard the activities of those who do not possess the spirit of the living God and do not mean well for the church.