Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel has warned the newly sworn in members of the State Executive Council that any act of misbehaviour would blacklist the cabinet member’s local government area from future opportunity for appointments. He, therefore, advised the new appointees to accord honour and prestige to the designation of “Honourable” attached to their names. The governor, who gave the warning yesterday in Uyo, the state capital, shortly after the swearing in of 19 Commissioners, two Special Advisers and four Permanent Secretaries, however, described those who made appointee list as tested and proven to be men and women of character, integrity, transparency, honesty and committed to “serve the Akwa Ibom enterprise.” Emmanuel, who declared that those appointed emerged strictly on merit, advised them to adhere strictly to the oath of office they undertook and to place the interest of the state ahead of personal interests. He added: “The Permanent Secretaries were selected strictly on merit. It is a call to duty. If you can adhere to the wordings of the oath of office you took, then you would never have any problem. But, don’t forget that your personal interest must not come first. Your first loyalty is to the state. You must be a mentor and discharge your duties exceptionally.” “For the Commissioners and Special Advisers, I want to say that they have been tested and proven to be men and women of character, integrity, transparency, honesty and members to serve the Akwa Ibom enterprise. “Let me also warn here that as a Commissioner or Special Adviser if you misbehave, we would mark down your local government area for further appointments. Thus, you have the choice to either or not take a decision that would affect your LGA,” he said. He, therefore, spoke of plans to create a full-fledged ministry to handle manpower planning in the state. On the appointment, the immediate past Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Charles Udoh, thanked the governor for the privilege given to them to serve the people, describing as unprecedented the governor’s decision to reappoint all members of his last executive. The new Commissioners are Mr. Akan Okon; Ime Ekpo; Prof. Nse Essien, Mr. Uwemedimo Nwoko; Mr. Monday Uko, Linus Nkan, Okpulupum Etteh, Ephraim Inyaneyen, Ekong Sampson, Charles Udoh, Orman Esin, Iniobong Essien, Dominic Ukpong and Gloria Edet. Others are Udo Ekpenyong; Ukpong Akpabio; Uno Etim; Raphael Bassey and Victor Bassey, while Sunny Ibuot and Ekemini Umoh were sworn in as Special Advisers, and Janet Daniel, Grace Aniefiok Udoinyang; Ekaete Iniobong  Ekanem and Dr. Patrick Anietie Essien were sworn in as Permanent Secretaries.