A Federal High Court sitting in Port-Harcourt, has convicted and sentenced three persons to jail for human trafficking, just as the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) and other relevant agencies have intensified search for the missing child. The suspects, Olujimi Mayokun, Peace Eze, and Adaugo Okafor, were arraigned on 13th November 2018, by NAPTIP on a six-count charge of child abduction and sale of person, acts which contravene sections 13 and 21 of the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015. NAPTIP’s operatives and a team from the Inspector-General of Police’s Monitoring Team had arrested the suspects during a joint operation. After through investigations, it was revealed that they abducted a two years old male child from Awka, Anambra State, and taken to Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The female suspects, Peace Eze and Adaugo Okafor, kidnapped their neighbour’s son, and after demanding for ransom payment from his parents, took the child to Port Harcourt, where they met with Mr. Olujimi Mayokun, who connived with them to sell the child. In Port Harcourt, the boy was taken to Omega Power Ministry and sold to unknown persons. The presiding Judge, Justice J.K Omotosho, was very livid with the defendants, as all efforts made to locate the child have so far proved abortive. The suspects could no longer identify or locate whom they sold the child. Having heard the prosecuting and defense counsels, the court found them guilty on all six counts and thereafter sentenced the first defendant, Mr. Olujimi Mayorkun, to three years imprisonment and a fine of N250, 000 on the first count. Also, seven years imprisonment and a fine of N3million on count two. The second and third defendants were sentenced to two years imprisonment and a fine of N250, 000 each on the third and fourth counts, and five years’ imprisonment with a fine of N5million on the fifth and sixth count. The sentences are to run concurrently. The Director-General of NAPTIP, Dame Julie Okah-Donli, commended the efforts of the Nigeria Police in the investigations and arrests, but expressed sadness that the child still has not been located.