 Policy uncertainty, formulation & implementation and Nigeria’s weak macroeconomic framework, are some of the key issues that will bother investors in the second half of this year, analysts at United Capital Plc have predicted.
The experts stated this in the firm’s Half-Year 2019 Outlook report obtained by New Telegraph yesterday.
They contended that President Muhammadu Buhari’s characteristic delay in appointing Ministers, which will affect the Senate’s screening and confirmation of the ministerial nominees, would: “Slow investment planning, as important decision in the strategic sectors of the economy as well as policy formulation across the sectors, have to wait for the ministers to settle in.”
Specifically, they stated: “Policy uncertainties will remain one of the biggest concerns for investors in H2-19. This position is buttressed by several factors. For instance, President Buhari is unlikely to form his cabinet until the end of Q3-19, if the experience from 2015 is anything to go by.
“This is because nomination must come from the 36 States in the name of the ‘Federal Character’ clause, then go through Presidential consideration before a final screening by the Senate. This is likely to slow investment planning as important decision in the strategic sectors of the economy as well as policy formulation across the sectors, have to wait for the ministers to settle in.”
Similarly, explaining how the country’s weak macroeconomic framework will worry investors in the remaining half of this year, the analysts said: “In the last 4/5 years, the IMF and other stakeholders have insisted that the macroeconomic framework in Nigeria is too weak to spur the required growth. Majorly, this is captured in the multiple exchange rates regime, distortionary quasi-fiscal activities, inadequate fiscal consolidation efforts, and the reluctance to overhaul the 2-fold subsidy program in the currency and energy markets, despite low revenue mobilization.
“This concern is also reflected in the policy agenda of Governor Emefiele for the next 5 years. According to the governor, the overarching objective of his administration is to achieve a double-digit GDP growth, single digit inflation rate, lower unemployment rate, and a stable exchange rate.”
Besides, the analysts stated: “While the target of the CBN is laudable, the apex bank lacks the capacity to drive this objective alone. For instance, to achieve a double-digit GDP growth, key economic agencies of the government such as the ministry of finance, trade & investment, oil & gas, agriculture, and national planning, must be drafted in.
“Put differently, lack of coordination among economic policy-making organs of the government as well as economic leaning of the authorities, which is ‘increasingly Statist’ points to the continuation of the subsisting policy framework.”
However, despite the foregoing, the experts said they expect economic activities in H2’19, “to be slightly better than H1-19.”
They stated: “This is predicated on stability in the agriculture sector, majorly supported by faster growth in Crop production and Livestock. Meanwhile, growth in the manufacturing, retail and wholesale trade sectors should improve on the back of an increase in consumer spending, which will be buoyed by higher wages following the recent minimum wage increase. We expect improvements in the services sector, which account for over 50.0% of GDP, to continue over H2-19. “Additionally, the likely resumption of crude oil production in Ogoni by Oct-19 is positive for oil sector growth in Q4-19. Accordingly, we revise our expectation for FY-19 GDP growth at 2.2%y/y.”