  T he word ‘Press’ is suggestive of the use and application force. It means to force, squeeze or pressurise one thing into another. It means to forcefully constrain something.  Pressing towards anything means that you must go the extra mile, and if possible make sacrifices such as denying yourself of certain conforts just to ensure that you achieve your goals.  To this end, the word of God declares, “Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize if high calling of God in Christ Jesus,” Phillipiians 3:13-14.  Success and prosperity eludes many people, not because they do not have potentials to be achievers, but because they lack persistence. Stamina to reach the goals of success is reinforced by persistence and perseverance.  Most people quit pursuing their goals when they are near to it’s realisation.The winners begin their success records where losers quit. The road to success and prosperity may be full of bumps, challenges to overcome, obstacles, huddles to scale, ravines to traverse, pains to bear and mountains to move. Candidates of success and prosperity are rugged, and are able to weather the storm on the pathway of prosperity till great dreams become reality.  John Mason affirms that,”All things come to those who persistently go after them. Persistence and perseverance are the rule of the game.  Thousands of people often start a marathon, but only few finish up. A stroke at a time and a step at a time, when persistently taken, will land you at a gallery of of prosperity. Don’t give up your success goal. You are only a stone throw to the mark.  In view of the foregoing scriptural position, the word of God also said: “Through God we shall do valiantly for he it is that tread down our enemies,” -Psalm 108: 13.   In deed, every achiever knows that his or her secret is God. This is why King David declares in verse one of that scripture: “O God my heart is fixed; I shall sing my song no matter how long it takes.”   Even if the events around your life are not fixed, your heart must be fixed. Even if the circumstances of your life are in great turbulence, turmoil or pain, your heart must be fixed. Resist the satanic lies or anxiety that may move your heart.   Every known achiever on planet Earth has this hidden secret, which is never give up. They all have a fixed and focused heart even before the hottest battle.   Robert Half declares: “When faced with a mountain, I will not quit, I will keep striving until I climb over, pass through a tunnel underneath or simply stay and turn the mountain into a gold mine with God’s help.” Also explaining the secret of his success and prosperity, Jackson Brown, a great philosopher, gave an analogy to.rhe word and said; “In the confrontation between the stream and the rock, the stream always wins, not through strength but by perseverance.”   That is his secret, Perseverance. Hold on. Have a fixed heart on your destination. Refuse to be moved by events. To this end, another social analyst and philosopher wrote, “Don’t give up at half time. Concentrate on winning the second half.”  Always remember that like David, champions have a fixed heart. Again while pressing towards prosperity, trust on the power and potency of the Almighty God. Your prosperity is based on absolute trust. To this end also, the word of God declares: “Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, and who’s hope the Lord is, for he shall be as tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the rivers and shall not see when heat cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit – Jeremiah17: 7-8.