The Industrial Training Fund (ITF) has identified transportation, agriculture, construction and service sectors in a job creation proposal the agency submitted to the government. This came as the agency yesterday in Abuja unveiled fresh strategies to tackle rising unemployment rate in the country. ITF Director-General, Joseph Ari, stated this in Abuja while speaking on the activities of the agency. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) had in the last quarter of 2018, stated that the number of Nigerians without jobs stood at 20.9 million. He said the agency in a proposal to the Federal Government, identified four areas, agriculture transportation, service sector and construction as sectors with huge potential to generate employments. He described the country’s unemployment rate as worrisome, adding that the ITF had come to the realisation that the trend was due to lack of requisite skills by Nigerians. According to the ITF boss, despite the spiralling unemployment rate, there still exists, trades that were difficult to fill in the country’s labour market. To address this trend, he said the agency had come up with programmes under its reviewed mandate. He gave some of them as National Industrial Skills Development Programme; Women Skills Empowerment Programme; Skills Training and Empowerment Programme for the physically challenged. Other areas of capacity building to address unemployment are aqua-culture/fish farming, manure production, poultry farming and training programme development on international marketing. Ari said within the next six months, the agency would be training about 18,000 Nigerians in these trade areas. “Our commitment to skills acquisition is premised on the fact that it remains the most viable and sustainable solution to rising unemployment and poverty that have continued to defy the best efforts of governmental and non-governmental approaches. There are countless reasons for us to worry as governments and as institutions vested with the arduous task of equipping Nigerians with the life skills for employability and entrepreneurship. “There is no doubt that unemployment has wrought a terrible damage on all facets of our national life. No reasonable analysis will divorce unemployment from the needless incidences of violence that have claimed thousands of lives across the nation. It will equally be difficult to separate rising criminality and harmful social vices that are being perpetrated by Nigerians because of unemployment and the attendant poverty,” he said.