The Federal Government recently toyed with the idea of proscribing the Almajiri phenomenon, due to security concerns. Inside Abuja went to the streets to find out how these children are living, the threat they pose to the society and what Nigerians think of them. DEBORAH OCHENI reports  About three weeks ago, the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, disclosed that the Federal Government would soon proscribe the Almajiri system in the country.
Addressing State House correspondents after the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, the NSA explained that it was time for Nigeria to stop playing with the matter of Almajiri because it is fast becoming a security challenge.
“Ultimately, government will have to proscribe this Almajiri phenomena because we cannot continue to have street urchins, children roaming around, only for them in a couple of years, or decades to become a problem to society.
“Let’s be very, very sincere to ourselves. We have to look at this issue that we have been sweeping under the carpet. So, when I briefed the NEC, I alerted them on the dangers of this phenomenon and the President in inaugurating NEC also stressed that we must make education free and compulsory. We are not trying to denigrate any group of people.
“We are not saying that they are going to be contained in a manner that you might think we want to do something that is harmful to them. No! What we want to do is to work with the state governments to enforce the policy of education for every child. It is every child’s right, his entitlement so long as he is a Nigerian,” Munguno said.
Although, many Nigerians familiar with the Almajiri system applauded this move, the Federal Government later backtracked on the policy for some inexplicable reasons. Vital statistics
Almajiris are the migrant street urchins who learn the Quran on the side with a Mallam and beg for alms the rest of the time. As of 2014, The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) put the number of Almajiris in the North-East region of Nigeria, at 2,711,767, representing 25 per cent of the total 9.5 million Almajiri population in Nigeria.
According to UNICEF, Borno State alone contributed a total of 1.8 million Almajiri, making it the state with the highest number of such children across the country.
Currently, the population of these boys—majorly between the ages of four to 15 has multiplied. Nothing concrete is yet to be done to address the problem of Almajiri system of Quranic education and the boys who are its direct victims.
From Maiduguri to Yobe, Kebbi, Kano, Kaduna, Minna, boys in tattered clothes and often times holding bowls roam the streets in search of food and many times beg for alms. They move from house to house, shop to shop after leaving the shades of their teachers.
No one has ever known their parents but it is believed that Almajiri boys are given out by parents who believed that Islamic knowledge should be sought from anywhere far. Their condition of living is pathetic—they are vulnerable to diseases, kidnapping and molestation. They are not immune against the vicissitudes of life.
Abdul Haruna, a 12-year-old Almajiri boy who was seen carrying out his daily routine of begging for alms with a customized round plastic plate hung on his neck, revealed that some of the Almajiris preferred to remain on the street and beg rather than going to school to acquire formal education.
He stated that going to school was merely a waste of money because no one will give them money or food in school. “But if I remain on the street, I will make money and some people will even give me food items that will help me and my mallam (tutor),” he said.
While it is obvious that these children grow up to become adults without any form of formal education, they end up also without skills with which they can survive with in life.
At best, an average Almajiri grows up to become a commercial motorcycle rider. In some instances, some grow to take up menial jobs such as hawking water, selling oranges and other forms of human activities that require little or no skill to attain.
This phenomenon over the past decades has made the Almajiri boys willing tools in the hands of politicians and other state actors who use them for selfish ends, particularly to foment troubles. Too often, ethnic and religious crises that erupted in many parts of Northern Nigeria were said to have been executed by Almajiri boys who grew up as adults without skills and jobs.
The situation is made scarier now because the terrorists and insurgents find Almajiri as ready recruits for their nefarious activities which is the real reason the Boko Haram insurgency has refused to go. While the kids really don’t get true Islamic teachings under their Malams because they spend more days on the streets looking for food than in the classroom learning, they are manipulated and indoctrinated wrongly by leaders of insurgents with promise of heavens and virgins.
So, to a new recruit for insurgency, human life means nothing in search of heaven and the promised seven virgins. Public opinion
Executive Director of Resource Centre for Human Rights & Civic Education (CHRICED), Ibrahim Zikirullahi, said Almajiri children are been used by politicians and other persons seeking foot soldiers for acts of violence. According to him, numerous reports have indicated their employment as thugs in ethno-religious and communal conflicts.
Zikirullahi also said that the Boko Haram extremists have taken advantage of the vulnerability of Almajiris to sell their hateful and blood thirsty philosophy.
“A close scrutiny of the literature of Boko Haram would reveal how the bureaucracy of the then fledging terrorists went as far as providing food and distributing motorcycles to win thousands of Almajiri youths into their folds,” he said.
Thomas Ejiga, a civil servant who lives in Maraba, said a good number of people complain about the nuisance the Almajiri children constitute in the society.
“I have heard people complaining about the Almajiris constituting nuisance but on a personal ground, I have not had any dealings with them. They are actually much on this axis; I get to see them daily going about their business of begging. I don’t give them anything and they are not forcing me to give them anything. I think they are peaceful just like every other beggars aside the fact that they are young and of school age,” he said.
Mallam Sanusi, a resident of Abuja, said that at some point in time, these street urchins were so many in Dei-dei, a suburb of Abuja, until they were sent away by the Task Force because they were acting like hoodlums as they usually go in group of five or more.
It was speculated that some of them carry weapons in the likes of knife and daggers. This alone causes distraction to road users who are gripped in fear any time they come across these boys. “Now they are everywhere, especially under the Dei-dei bridge and that pose a serious threat to the security of the lives and properties of those living in that area,” Sanusi said.
Samson George, a resident of Nyanya believes strongly that some of the Almajiri are criminals. “I detest them because some of them hide under the cover of begging to carry out some criminal acts. I boarded same vehicle with one sometime last week, we sat next to each other and he attempted picking the money in my pocket but he was so unlucky because I was very vigilant and I was able to get hold of him. They are nothing but criminals and I still wonder why it’s so difficult for the government to completely get rid of them,” he fumed.
But it is a different ball game for other Nigerians. Mark Nduka, a resident of Abuja, said the Almjiris children are very peaceful.
“I believe they are the downtrodden in the society. I get to see them on the street daily and I give them money. They don’t give trouble at all,” he said
Nana Ameh, a business woman living in Zuba said the number of Almajiri along the Zuba/ Kaduna road increases daily because more and more of them keep arriving from different directions.
“They increase on a daily basis here in Zuba and no one can really stop their activities because they own the land. But I feel they should be kept away from the street for security reasons. My heart bleeds whenever I see these children on the busy spots of the highway begging because their lives are imperiled.
“They constitute a major problem that we have in Nigeria. These children will not go to school or do something meaningful with their lives. When it’s time for elections, they all go back to their roots to vote and when elections are over, they return to milk hardworking people of the reward of their labour all in the name of begging. They voted massively for their brother to become president for the second term. Now, he is there and poverty is biting hard. We will dance to the music of poverty that they have set playing,” he said.
As the Federal Government remains undecided about what to do to get these children off the streets, the Almajiris are still on the streets of Abuja and in most northern states, begging for alms as a means of livelihood, As it stands, the future looks bleak and if nothing urgent is done, the continued neglect of these kids may spell doom for Nigeria.