Residents of the University of Lagos Estate in Isheri, Lagos, have commended Ikeja Electric for the swift installation of meters in the Estate, under the Meter Asset provider scheme (MAP). The Chairman of the Community Development Association (CDA), Alhaji Bashir Momodu, commended IE for the development, stressing that they could now control their consumption as they would now be paying for what they use. He advised IE to improve on its service in terms of power supply. Another landlord, Engr. Kunle Olaifa, while commending the Disco as well, noted that installation of meters will gradually eliminate the issue of outstanding bills left by tenants when moving to another apartment. Mrs. Abimbola Ande, while expressing joy with the installation of meters, noted that the burden of crazy bills has been lifted off her. The Acting Chief Commercial Officer Ikeja Electric, Ugochukwu Obi-Chukwu, reiterated IE’s commitment to bridging the metering gap across its network, through Meter Asset Provider (MAP) scheme. Obi-Chukwu said: “Ikeja Electric is deploying the meters in two phases, starting with Shomolu, Ikorodu and Abule-Egba Business Units. The second phase will now include Akowonjo, Ikeja and Oshodi Business Units. We have already commenced MAP in the Shomolu Business Unit, with the metering of UNILAG Estate in Isheri and Magodo, which is currently ongoing. The unique demography of these areas actually made the survey of customers very easy.” Obi-Chukwu noted that the company has put measures in place to ensure that the meters were not by-passed. He said that there will be monitoring team patrolling the network on daily basis to cross check the meters, and whoever is caught to have by-passed the meter will be sanctioned accordingly. He added: “The offender will be made to pay fine of N50, 000 if its single phase meter and N100, 000 for by-passing three phase meter. Also, such customer will be charged for loss of revenue by billing the customer, as determined by Ikeja Electric. The fine depends on the nature and level of by-pass”. He cautioned against energy theft and any form of illegal connection, advising customers to go to the nearest Ikeja Electric’s office to make complaints.