 The visa restriction placed on some Nigerian politicians by the United States government, yesterday sparked off another row between the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO), one of the numerous groups that supported President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election. Secretary of State of the United States government, Mr. Michael Pompeo, had on Tuesday, imposed visa restrictions on some Nigerians believed to have been responsible for, or complicit in, undermining democracy in Nigeria. The action came on the heels of an earlier warning that the United States would sanction individuals who operated with impunity at the expense of the Nigerian people and undermined democratic principles and human rights during the 2019 general elections. In a swift reaction to the visa ban, the Atiku Abubakar’s camp described it as a vindication that the February 23 presidential election was rigged by forces loyal to the government, while the BMO said the action clearly exonerated President Buhari from complicity in the hiccups recorded during and after the elections. The former vice president stated that President Buhari had attempted to deny the rigging of the election but said “that no matter how far and fast falsehood, or in this case, rigging, has travelled, it must eventually be overtaken by truth. In a statement by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, Atiku maintained that the polls were marred by violence and intimidation, adding that the results declared could not have been credible. “It seems that day has come. After many months of living in denial, the Buhari regime is now faced with the truth in the form of a U.S. visa ban on politicians who undermined Nigeria’s democracy,” he said. Abubakar commended the United States of America for condemning the acts of violence and intimidation that characterized the 2019 general election, and “for standing with the Nigerian people against those whose desire it is to truncate our democracy.” He urged Nigerians not to despair as there is hope on the horizon. “There is light at the end of the tunnel. The myriad of security, economic and social challenges Nigeria currently faces, which has resulted in our nation becoming the world headquarters for extreme poverty will, God wiling, soon be over, with the prospect of purposeful and result oriented leadership,” he said. However, the BMO hailed the visa restriction order imposed on a category of Nigerian politicians by the United States government, saying the action clearly exonerated the present administration in the country. According to the BMO, the fact that the United States took the step without directly targeting the Nigerian government or its officials was a positive development. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Niyi Akinsiju and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, BMO said that the US State Department’s position showed the futility of the opposition’s efforts to demonise the government before, during and after the 2019 elections. “We acknowledge the decision by the American government to impose visa ban on individuals responsible for undermining the last electoral process or organising election-related violence. It is in line with a warning the U.S. issued before the election, and we note that it is within the rights of the Americans to do so. “By making it clear that the actions are not directed at the government that emerged from the process, the U.S. has tacitly cleared the Buhari administration of involvement in acts of political violence in spite of efforts by lobbyists engaged by the PDP to taint the President’s victory. “This is a welcome decision considering that the U.S. specifically targeted officials of the Venezuelan government and their family members when it imposed visa restrictions on the country in the wake of recent election in that country,” it added. The pro-Buhari group expressed hope that the visa restriction would cover individuals who threatened violence if their candidates failed to win the last elections, as well as others who freely used hate speech on social and traditional media in the run up to the election. Meanwhile, the United States government has said that it will not disclose the names of the Nigerian politicians affected by the recent visa restriction order announced by the State Department, because the Privacy Protection Law of the United States does not permit it. Following the announcement, the media has been inundated with enquiries as to the identities of those affected by the order, just as the Federal Government of Nigeria and the opposition traded blames over the issue. An official of the US Embassy who spoke in confidence with New Telegraph yesterday, said disclosing the names of the affected politicians will amount to infringing on the privacy of such persons. According to our source, since the order came directly from the State Department, officials of the US Embassy in Nigeria were not in a position to know the names and cannot even disclose such an information because it was personal to the individuals involved in the matter. “Under the US Privacy Law, even if someone had been denied a visa, unless the person told you, but you cannot hear it from us. The law forbids that to be done because that is somebody’s private information. “The only other way you may get to know is if somebody was travelling and went to the Embassy to get a visa and it was denied and he begins to talk about it. But from our side, we cannot do that because if we do, we will be contravening the law on privacy,” the source said.