 The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ikere, Ekiti State chapter has told the federal government to embrace the much touted proposed community policing as a mechanism to rescue the nation out of unending senseless killings being experienced in the country.  The body insisted that it would be difficult for the country to get out of the messy situation being witnessed should the federal government refuse to review the nation’s security architecture. Besides, NBA kicked against special courts to try corruption cases, saying the present judicial arrangement was enough to handle cases bordering on graft.  NBA chairman, Oludayo Olorunfemi, spoke in Ikere Ekiti at the weekend during a press conference heralding the maiden edition of the branch’s law week commencing from today.  Olorunfemi regretted how traditional rulers had allowed their domains to become safe havens for criminals, describing them as the closest political organs to the grassroots.  He said: “We believe the community policing is the best option against these killings that are affecting everybody. Most of those who ought to attend our programme have declined because of the killing of Mrs. Funke Olakunrin, which makes Ekiti and Ondo axis looked unsafe.  “Two members of NBA in Ekiti have been killed by bandits when we lost the Secretary of this branch last year December. It was tragic to us. The family is yet to recover from it. “0ur traditional rulers should not allow criminals to use their towns as dens for evil doing.  It seems our traditional rulers are folding their arms. Apart from the state security apparatuses, they are the closest to the people. Ekiti is known as land of Omoluabi and honour. It should not be a comfortable area for criminals.  “Community policing is the best option, You don’t expect the police or soldiers who don’t understand the terrain or who were brought from outside to fish out criminals. What are the local hunters doing?” “All we need to do is to enforce the laws.  The laws are there and once it is interpreted by the judiciary, we must over them. So, the judiciary as constituted is okay to handle corruption cases.” Olorunfemi stated that part of the programme would be Wole Olanipekun Public lecture which would be delivered by the Ekiti State’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Wale Fapohunda. She added that lawyers from the branch will also give free legal and health services to residents as part of the five days event.