Kunle Olayeni, Abeokuta  Five persons have lost their lives while 14 others sustained injuries as a granite-laden Iveco truck rammed into a commercial bus along the Abeokuta-Ibadan road in Ogun State. The fatal crash occurred on Friday at 9:20pm at the Odeda area of the highway. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE) confirmed the incident in separate statements yesterday. Sunday Telegraph learnt the truck, marked LAR 114 YD, while trying to avoid a pothole at the Abule-Ika stretch of the road, lost control on top speed and crushed the Ibadan-bound Mazda bus with registration number MUS 367 XV. The FRSC Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, attributed the crash to dangerous driving. According to him, the victims involved in the accident included 14 male and five females. Oladele said: “The suspected cause of fatal crash was dangerous driving. The truck crushed the passengers inside the commuter bus and trapped them inside. “The injured victims were taken to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Abeokuta, while the corpses of the dead victims were deposited at the morgue of State Hospital Ijaiye, Abeokuta. The obstruction was thereafter cleared off the road to prevent further crashes.” On his part, the TRACE Public Relations Officer, Babatunde Akinbiyi, disclosed that “the driver of the truck and his ‘motor boy’ escaped from the scene of the incident.” No fewer than 12 persons were killed yesterday while eight others sustained injuries during a fatal crash along the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway. The accident, which occurred about 12:29pm, involved three vehicles, including a yellow Lagos intra-city bus with registration number AAA 886 XR, a Ford Transit bus and a black… In "News" Ten persons, including a two-month-old baby, Thurday lost their lives in an auto crash that occurred along the Abeokuta-Sagamu Expressway in Ogun State. The accident, which occurred about 10:30am, involved a white Mazda commercial bus with registration number TRE 556 XA, and a granite-laden truck marked Lagos LND 564 XP.… In "Metro and Crime" There was pandemonium yesterday in Ago-Iwoye, Ijebu North Local Government Area of Ogun State when a truck laden with granite crushed a middle-aged man with three children. The incident happened at Oru- Ago-Iwoye junction, along the Ijebu- Ode/Ibadan Road when the victims were riding a motorcycle on their way to… In "Metro and Crime"