The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development has commended Chief Superintendent of Police Abubarkar Yakubu -led Kickboxing Federation of Nigeria  for having a constitution ahead of the deadline. The commendation was made by  the ministry’s representative, Mrs Nkana Mbora, during the federation’s Annual General Meeting held on July 26, 2019 at the Media Centre of the  National Stadium Surulere, Lagos. She  also gave special commendation to Yakubu for not only masterminding the enactment of a  working constitution for the smooth operation of the federation, but for  his charismatic  leadership which is responsible for the fast growth of kickboxing in the country “The infighting which affected the game in the country is now a thing of the past and we are  giving  kudos to Yakubu for sanitizing the sport,” she said. The Nigeria Olympic Committee,  which was represented, by Mrs Kemi Obidaunsi,  also commended CSP Yakubu for his exemplary leadership. In his welcome address,   the KBFN praised his board members and other stakeholders for an encouraging turnout  which was the first of its kind in the history of kickboxing in in the country as moststates, clubs and other stakeholders were well in attendance. “That on its own shows that all the stakeholders are  equally interested in developing the sport,” he said. For its remarkable role in promoting and developing sports through hospitality and provision of adequate security for participants in school sports, the Nigeria Schools Sports Federation (NSSF) has commended Lagos State Government. The commendation was given by the President of NSSF, Mallam Mohammed Ibrahim, when the leadership of the Federation… In "Education" President of the Kickboxing Federation of Nigeria , Abubakar Yakubu, a Chief Superintendent of Police, is excited about the outcome of the maiden Rivers State National Open Kickboxing Championship that took place from November 12-18 at the Alfred Diete Spiff Civic-Centre, in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State Capital. The… In "Sports" Top seeds, Anuoluwapo Opeyori and Dorcas Adesokan have emerged the champions of the first edition of the Rivers Governor's Badminton Championship, which ended in Port Harcourt at the weekend. Opeyori defeated doubles partner and friend, Godwin Olofua, 2-0 (22-20, 21-17) in the men's category, while Adesokan beat Deborah Ukeh 2-1… In "Sports"