Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has been advised to launch investigation to find those who stripped three women and dehumanised them for allegedly being members of a ‘one-chance robbery gang.’ The incident, which occurred on June 30, 2019, in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, was captured in a video, which has since gone viral. The video captures a mob attacking four persons, one man and three women, accused of being members of ‘a gang of one-chance criminals’ operating in Abuja. The video showed the stripped women being repeatedly flogged by some men, while others watched and used their phones to snap and video record the incident. Ironically, the only man in their midst was not stripped. The National Coordinator of Rule of Law and Accountability Advocacy Centre (RULAAC), Mr. Okechukwu Nwanguma, urged Adamu to identify those involved in the mob action. He said: “There are unverified claims that ‘they were apprehended by SARS officers and policemen during one of their operations and stripped on the street…’ “RULAAC is yet unable to confirm this claim as the video didn’t reveal the presence of any uniformed police officer in the crowd. Efforts to confirm the time and location of the incident from the police have not yielded any result yet.” Nwanguma noted that the accused persons in the video were surrounded by a mob that beat, kicked and flogged them with various objects. He added: “One of the men in the mob was seen with a belt that resembles that of security agents. The accused persons were forced to lie on their back with the three women stripped bare while the only man among the alleged gang was left with his jean trousers on. One of the female was heard pleading, that she was just a passenger.” The activist noted that while ‘One-chance’ has been a major menace in parts of Abuja, targeting mainly women, the resort to mob action against suspects is not a lawful or civilised response to the menace. He said: “It is tending to fight crime with crime. The consequences of citizens taking laws into their own hands by resorting to mob action include the fact that often, innocent people are victimised and sometimes, as in the case of the Aluu 4, mob action may also result to the murder of innocent people. Even if the actual criminals were to be arrested by citizens while in the act, the lawful step to take is to hand them over to the police for investigation and prosecution. “But of even more serious concern to RULAAC is the discriminatory treatment meted to accused persons based on gender. In this case under reference, while the mob stripped the three accused female naked, they left the male accused member of the alleged gang with his trousers on.” Nwanguma argued that the dehumanising treatment of the three women was not an isolated case. According to him, there is a growing and disturbing tendency by both law enforcement agents and citizens to subject women accused of crime to sexual abuse and violence, clearly targeting them for being women. He said: “The Abuja raids of night clubs and other places during which law enforcement agents, acting based on similar clear gender discrimination, arrested only women found at the clubs, paraded them naked and sexually abused and exploited them. “This predatory approach to law enforcement is prevalent and has been documented many times not only in Abuja, but also in other parts of the country, including Akwa Ibom and Lagos recently. It is despicable and offends morality and Nigerian laws. Those responsible, whether they are law enforcement agents or ordinary citizens, should be made to face the legal consequences of their depraved and unlawful actions. Women must be protected from discriminatory practices and sexual abuse and violence.”