For sometime now, there has been this noise with its deafening echoes enveloping Nigeria about the Fulani ethnic group. It started in muffled dissonance during the Jonathan regime when the Agatu people claimed they were being attacked, killed, their houses destroyed and the survivors displaced. Agatu constitutes just about one or two villages in the southern part of Benue State. Not much attention was paid to their cries because they constitute insignificant part of the federation to attract the attention of government and Nigerians to their plight. It was after the sacking of President Jonathan in 2015 and inauguration of President Buhari that this noise about the Fulani attained a crescendo. By 2015 to 2016, the noise about the Fulani started transcending the boundaries of Agatu to neighbouring communities in Central and Northern parts of Benue State and another border community in Enugu State lying at the Kogi State border. All the noise about the Fulani centred, and still centres, on alleged killings and destruction of property at the affected communities. Plateau State’s case has been lingering since the era of President Obasanjo when it constituted a major security challenge forcing the president to declare a state of emergency in the state and sacked Governor Joshua Dariye and replaced him with a retired military general who became military administrator. Federal Government set up a panel of inquiry to unravel the problem and make a report. Whether those recommendations in the report were studied, accepted and implemented is different point. Before the Benue State case, the killings, destruction of property and consequent displacement of people from their homes were so common place that the situation was taken as normal course of communal relations. Nobody tagged the Fulani as the perpetrators of the attacks and killings. However, it was 2015 that these violent attacks started being ascribed with ethnic coloration. And the ethnic profiling of the Fulani as the perpetrators began. Official government responses did not help matters as the public are lead to surmise that since the present ruler of Nigeria is Fulani, the attackers were being officially shielded or protected from the rigours and strictures of the law. What excited my attention to be concerned about this state of insecurity in Nigeria and the commonplace tagging of the Fulani as the perpetrators of the crimes is the new dimension thrown into the mix by two foremost leaders of Nigeria in the persons of Generals Olusegun Obasanjo and General TY Danjuma who accused President Buhari government of Fulanization and Islamization. My worry is that that noise about the Fulani has taken a different shape recently when these two men lent their “powerful” voice to the din of Fulani ‘wahala’ in Nigeria. It was General Danjuma sometime in 2018 at the convocation of Taraba State University that first attacked President Buhari government and accused it of collusion by shielding and protecting the attackers of the communities in the Middle Belt and other regions of Nigeria and pointedly advised the people of those areas to defend themselves against what he called “ethnic cleansing.” That was last year! Now, this year, General Obasanjo threw in a grenade into the din to further worsen the cacophony by accusing President Buhari of Fulanization and Islamization of Nigeria. Some weeks ago, General Danjuma with other Middle Belt retired military officers travelled to Britain on behalf of Nigerian Christian Elders Forum to petition the British Parliament about alleged plan by Nigerian government to Islamize Nigeria. I am disturbed by the accusations by Generals Obasanjo and Danjuma against the government of Nigeria of ‘Fulanisation’ and Islamization of Nigeria, West Africa and Africa. My question is when did this official plan begin? Was it only from May 29, 2015 when President Buhari took over power that the plan to Fulanize and Islamize Nigeria began? Let our leaders led by General Obasanjo and Danjuma tell us the truth about Nigeria. Did Islamization of Nigeria just began with President Buhari when in 1978, General Obasanjo presided over a political transition programme that had a Constitution Drafting Committee and the Constituent Assembly that debated it and they denied Nigerians the freedom to debate, agree or disagree on the nature of the union of Nigeria’s ethnic nationalities. Did Generals Obasanjo and Danjuma not know that religion and ethnicity are powerful instincts in man and that modern nations try by all possible means to use the chains of the constitution as William Jefferson would say, to tie up these untrammelled human passions by legal strictures that keep religion and ethnicity away from the legal framework by making the state secular. And yet Generals Obasanjo and Danjuma disallowed Nigerians to debate these issues and when President Obasanjo had the second chance of eight years of civilian government he did not summon a Constitutional Convention to remake Nigeria into a modern Nation-State founded on republican and democratic principles and ethos free from fears of Fulanization and Islamization. The 2005 National Conference he summoned got sabotaged simply because his third term agenda crashed. Having lost the opportunity to remake Nigeria into a workable entity let these men allow Nigerians be because even if Nigeria is being Islamized and Fulanized, it will not be the first time a country is conquered and subjugated. Turkey was a Christian country, in fact the second most important centre in Christendom, and Egypt was the greatest centre after Damascus as the centres of early Christianity but they were conquered and Islamized. Hausa land was conquered by the Fulani who being minority allowed Hausa language and culture but destroyed Hausa ruling dynasties and replaced them with Fulani Islamic Caliphate. As conquerors they turned millions of Hausa into slaves; are they not luxuriating in their new condition under Islamic society and caliphate instituted by the Fulani in 1807. Please, come away from this hopeless noise that is becoming deafening to Nigerians. We are tired of it. Perhaps, as leaders, especially Generals Danjuma, Dogonyaro and Lekwot that travelled to London to complain to British Parliament over the alleged Fulanisation and Islamization agenda of the Nigerian Government, may be ignorant of the century old plan by Britain to maintain Nigeria as it is or even worse. Let them visit any British Government Stationery Office and purchase and read the declassified British Imperial Records edited by Ronald Hyam and Roger Louis of University of London Institute of Commonwealth Studies titled, “The Conservative Government and the End of an empire” which detailed how British Imperial Colonial Office in conjunction with Nigerian Colonial officials designed the constitutional and political framework in such a way that Nigeria remain a neo-colonial state tied to apron-string of Britain forever with Northern political establishment controlling it. Britain admitted in the declassified records that the system they designed for Nigeria will be “unjust” for the time being but that British interest supersedes that of the people of Nigeria. So if they run to London to complaint, let them know they have ran to the enemy for rescue. Meanwhile, please, let the noise about the Fulani cease henceforth. How can a minority tribe be assailed as the problem of Nigeria out of the over 300 tribes? It is incongruous that this tribe should be accused of planning to Fulanize and Islamize the Igbo, Yoruba, Tivs, Ijaw, Effiks, etc. and they believe reasonable men will accept them. And with what instruments will they effect the Fulanization and Islamization? Law or force of weapons? Only slaves behave like Nigerians.