I n life, one of the hardest phases one could ever pass through is the phase of childlessness after several months or years in marriage. I have been there; I sincerely know how it feels. Believe me, it is not a pleasant experience. The people who go through this phase and still stay strong are the real VIPs in our society. Never spite or mock them FOR ANY REASON.  From my little study, most problems or challenges we face can be solved either by us or people close to us. For instance, if you are jobless, you can either go get a job or someone gets one for you. If you are homeless, you can either go get a place or someone decides to house you. But the one challenge that usually requires DIVINE INTERVENTION is the challenge of childlessness. I rate it the highest form of challenge.   Now, over time, we’ve seen couples who were once childless become parents as a result of divine intervention. If this situation which I regard as the highest form of challenge could be solved by God, then I see no ordeal too impossible or big for God to handle.   Mr. and Mrs. Yakoyo got married some years ago. After many months of waiting to conceive (pregnant), nothing was forth coming. At first, they didn’t pay attention to it because they knew they were both medically fine. But after a while, the subject became a thing of concern for them, they decided to get medical help.   Series of tests and treatments were done, still, no change – the situation remained the same. At a point, they started borrowing to cover their medical bills so as to get an end to this situation. Friends, you don’t know what some couples go through to get conception – reason I admonished us never to mock or look down on anyone in this phase. It is a phase that usually passes. The least you can do is pray and encourage them.   If you are an African, you can attest to the kind of pressure being placed by friends and relatives of couples who have not conceived after months/years of marriage. Some persons suddenly forget that no one, except God, gives children.   Mr. Yokoyo remembered a couple who had experienced this kind of situation in the past. This couple had waited for close to 9 years before grace finally found them. They are now blessed with two great kids However, this did not happen until after series of treatments, including IVF and IUI (In-Vitro Fertilization and Intra-Uterine Insemination respectively) with plenty of prayers.   The Yakoyos reached out to them, got the contact of the hospital – a well-known hospital somewhere in Lagos, Nigeria. They fixed an appointment with the senior doctor, and consultations began. If you’ve had this kind of experience or know someone who did, you’d agree with me that hospitals that deal with cases like this do not charge the kind of fees for malaria and typhoid treatments; they are usually very expensive.   They were placed on series of tests for weeks. The tests alone have gulped hundreds of thousands; just imagine how much the treatment would cost. After the final test, the doctor requested they deposit a huge sum of money within the next three days, else the process will begin all over again. They didn’t have such cash at hand. They felt they’ve gotten to the end-of-the-road.   Friends, there is a point you get to in life, there is a kind of challenge that would hit you and you’ll say you’ve had it all – That this is just the end. In such circumstances, all that’s needed is divine intervention.   That was the last day the Yakoyos visited the hospital. They asked God Almighty to intervene and prove Himself in the situation, and He did. The wife conceived naturally; I saw the baby few days ago, growing very fast and smart. I said within me “This can only be God”.   I am not telling you a movie I watched or a dream I had. I am telling you what I know.   There is nothing too impossible for God to do, absolutely nothing. When it looks as though you’ve got to the end, that’s when God likes to display. When it seems as though the situation looks impossible before ma, that’s when He (God) likes to daze everyone.   Do you believe that miracles still happen? Do you see God stepping into this seemingly ‘difficult’ situation? Like the Yakoyos, God will visit you and make you smile again. What usually cause you sorrow will soon become a thing of joy. This week, step out with great expectations. SOMETHING GREAT IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN.