TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the first executive governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, who clocked 90 yesterday  T here is no way the political history of Lagos State would be written without the name of the first executive governor of the state, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande (LKJ) not being written in gold because of his remarkable achievements as the number one citizen of the state during the Second Republic.   His reign in Lagos State between October 1, 1979 and December 31, 1983, remains till date, the most performing administration in the Centre of Excellence as no military administrator or civilian governor before or after him has been able to equal his achievements in terms education, infrastructural development, public transportation and other critical sectors.  As governor, there was hardly any sector that the magical hands of Jakande, who many refer to as ‘Action Governor’ didn’t transform to make Lagos a reference point. He took governance to an unimaginable height in Lagos and till date, many of the populist policies and programmes he implemented still endear him to all and sundry. In fact his achievements have become models for all his successors and this is why politicians, especially party candidates always talk about Jakande and his laudable projects every election year.   As Jakande, who distinguished himself not only in the politics, but in the journalism profession joins the nonagenarian club, drums were rolled out to celebrate the 90 years of the existence of an elder statesman, whose life epitomises “resilience, positive audacity, bravery and a knack for excellence,” as former Governor Achike Udenwa of Imo State described Jakande 15 years ago during his 75th birthday celebration.  Jakande has distinguished himself as a tireless fighter, politician and journalist without any blemish. He is one of the surviving governors elected on the platform of Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) and disciples of the late sage and Premier of the defunct Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who have remained steadfast in what their mentor lived and died for.  Born on July 23, 1929 in the Epetedo area of Lagos Island, Jakande attended a Lagos public school at Enu-Owa, Lagos Island and also Bunham Memorial Methodist School, Port Harcourt from 1934 to 1943 before proceeding to King’s College, Lagos in 1943, and later enrolled at Ilesha Grammar School in 1945, where he edited a literary paper called “The Quarterly Mirror.”   In 1949 Jakande began a career in journalism first with the Daily Service and later joined the Nigerian Tribune in 1953. In 1956, young Jakande was appointed Editor-in-Chief of the Tribune by Awolowo. After leaving the Tribune in 1975, Jakande established John West Publications and began to publish The Lagos News. As a respected journalists and media manager, Jakande served as the first President of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN).   Like his political leader, Awolowo; Jakande who many people referred to as ‘Baba Kekere’ (junior Awolowo) sees public office as an avenue to serve the people and not a means to acquire personal wealth. He ventured into politics prior to the commencement of the Second Republic. He joined UPN and threw his hat into the ring for the governorship of Lagos State.   He took part in the 1979 governorship poll, defeated his main opponents, Adeniran Ogunsanya of Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP) and Sultan Ladega Adeniji Adele of National Party of Nigeria (NPN) and was subsequently sworn in as the first civilian governor of Lagos State. Bases on his remarkable achievement within his first term of four years, Jakande was re-elected during the 1983 elections, but spent only three months before he was kicked out of office due to the December 31, 1983 coup that produced Major-General Muhammadu Buhari as Head of State.   Though Jakande spent only four years and three months in office as governor of Lagos State, his performance cannot be compared to many governors who spent two-terms of eight years. Today, despite leaving the helms of affairs as governor almost 36 years ago, Jakande’s footprint is still visible in all the nooks and crannies of the state and no governor till date has been able to equal his record in terms of provision of basic social amenities to the populace.   Jakande’s administration was effective, open and implemented the cardinal policies of his party – UPN – with more focus in addressing the needs of both the poor and the rich in the state. To cater for the basic needs of largest population in Lagos State, LKJ introduced housing and educational programmes targeting the poor by building new neighbourhood primary and secondary schools and providing free primary and secondary education.   Before LKJ became governor in 1979, Lagos State ran shifts in its schools. So, to open up public education in the state by accommodating more pupils and students in public schools, the Jakande administration after only one year in office, constructed additional schools to make learning easy and convenient for pupils.  It is of note that within few months in office, he constructed thousands of classrooms and the schools he built were criticised for not being state-of-the art, but they produced thousands of students who are holding their own around the world at the moment. And in his quest to provide qualitative education at the tertiary level, Jakande against all odds established the Lagos State University (LASU) in 1983.   To address housing challenges in the state, Jakande’s government constructed over 30,000 housing units. Some of the housing units built still remains reference points till date. They include low cost estates in Amuwo-Odofin, Ijaiye, Dolphin, Oke-Afa, Ije, Abesan, Iponri, Ipaja, Abule Nla, Epe, Anikantamo, Surulere, Iba, Ikorodu and Badagry.   It is of note that Jakande in his determination to fund some of the projects increased tenement rates and price of plots of land in affluent areas of Victoria Island and Lekki Peninsula and the processing fees for lottery, pools and gaming licenses.   Considering the notion that health is wealth, Jakande as executive governor of Lagos State within his four years in office completed the construction of the General Hospital in Gbagada and Ikorodu and built about 20 health centres within the state to provide medical care for all Lagosians.   It is also of note that as a governor, LKJ also established 23 local government councils which were later disbanded by the military.   Jakande also transformed the state’s transport sector. It is of note that 59 new buses belonging to the Lagos State Transport Corporation were inaugurated on November 29, 1979, with a view to enhancing public transportation in the state.   He made an effort to ease transportation challenges in the state by starting a metroline project to facilitate mass transit. But the project was halted by the Federal Government and till date Lagos State has not been able to have functioning metroline transportation.   It was under the Jakande administration that movement into current Lagos State Secretariat at Alausa, Ikeja, began. The former governor reportedly attached so much urgency to the construction of the secretariat that he was so bent on the relocation plan that he virtually caught everyone unawares when it finally happened.   As a consummate journalist and media manager, he followed the footstep of his leader (Awolowo), who established the first television station in Africa, the defunct Western Nigeria Television Station (now Nigeria Television Authority), by establishing Lagos Television (LTV), which happens to be the first state owned television in Nigeria.   The administration also constructed water works at Agege, Shasha, Somolu, Badagry, Aguda and Apapa, among others to improve water supply and avoid outbreak of water borne epidemics.   As a result of the power change in Nigeria, Jakande after the military take-over in 1983, was charged, prosecuted and convicted of treason, and was later pardoned. During the aborted Third Republic, Jakande also played crucial role in the election of the office holders in the state.   After being freed from the prison, Jakande, based on the recommendation and acceptance of his political group and progressives leaders in South-West, served as Minister of Works under the General Sani Abacha regime.   As Minister of Works, Jakande also repeat the housing magic in Lagos State in different parts of the country by building federal low cost housing in many states. But his decision to serve in the Abacha’s regime earned him some criticism from the members of the Awolowo’s political group and the progressives’ camp in South-West.  His association with the Abacha’s regime handicapped his career in politics at the birth of the Fourth Republic in 1999 as he was not part of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), which was ruling party under the leadership of members of the Awolowo political family, which Jakande once belonged to.   Jakande later pitched his tent with the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and later quit the party to register his own party and became the first National Chairman of the Action Party of Nigeria (APN) when it was formed in November 2006.   One of the remarkable things that made Jakande’s name to be written in gold in the history of Lagos State is that unlike many Nigerian politicians and public office holders who corruptly enriched themselves with public funds, the ‘Action Governor’ didn’t build any monument for himself in the four years that he served.   But his works, however, registered him in the minds of people as they have named all the estates and schools he built after him without signboards.   As Jakande joins the nonagenarian club, he will be remembered as a public servant who used public office to better the life of the populace and provided basic social amenities for the masses.