Nigeria’s main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), appears to be simmering in internal insurrection. After a strong showing at the 2019 general election in which the party won 15 governorship seats out of 29 on offer and a strong run at the Presidential and National Assembly elections, the party seemed to have come out of the political wood it went into in 2015. But the recent election of principal officers of the National Assembly by lawmakers appears to be creating another major crisis in the party. Against its preference for Senator Ali Ndume as the president of the Senate, some members of the party opted to vote for Senator Ahmad Lawan, who eventually emerged as Senate president. Although both Ndume and Lawan are of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the significance of the disobedience on party instruction by some PDP members was not lost. The same scenario played out again at the House of Representatives where PDP members voted for Femi Gbajabiamila in large numbers against Umar Mohammed Bago, who PDP preferred. Gbajabiamila polled 281 votes to defeat Bago, who scored 76 votes in an election, which 357 members of the House participated in. Thus, unlike APC, which railroaded its members into voting their preferred choices, PDP could not have its way this time, as it lost out of the power tussle. But while that has remained contentious owing to the secrecy of the balloting system, the emergence of principal officers at the House appear to have plunged the party into deeper crisis. Instead of Hon. Kingsley Chinda, whom the party preferred as its minority leader, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu emerged or was announced on the floor of the House by Gbajabiamila to the chagrin of PDP. Thus, last week, PDP summoned Elumelu and six other members of the House of Representatives. They were suspended for one month over the minority leadership tussle in the lower chamber. The other suspended members are Wole Oke, Lynda Ikpeazu, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwadi, Toby Okechukwu and Adekoya Abdul- Majid. The lawmakers were suspended over issues related to indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience of party directives. The party also referred the matter to its National Disciplinary Committee. “After preliminary examination by NWC, it was evident that the roles played by the mentioned members bordered on indiscipline, insubordination and disobedience of party directives. “These acts are contrary to Section 58 (1)(b)(c)(f)(h) of the PDP constitution (as amended in 2017), which provides that: ‘Subject to the provision of this constitution, the party shall have power to discipline any member who says or does anything likely to bring the party into disrepute, hatred or contempt,” the party stated. National Chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus, said that the party was insisting on its nomination list earlier forwarded to the Speaker of the House. He said that Chinda, who was nominated for the minority leadership position in the lower chamber, was PDP’s choice. His position was upheld by the Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the party, Senator Jubril Walid, who added that the nomination list of NWC would be resubmitted to the speaker. Since 2015 when it lost its position as the majority party in the country, PDP has passed through different levels of crises, which included the battle for the control of the soul of the party between the Senator Ali Modu Sheriff-led faction and the Senator Ahmed Markarfi-led mainstream PDP, which triumphed later. The party had also passed through a fractious presidential primary that produced its candidate in the 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar. Instructively, Atiku emerged against the party’s preferred choice, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State. But to its credit, the party came out very strongly in the elections, maybe owing to the crisis that hit APC in many states of the federation, prior to that election. We know as a fact that since misfortune befell PDP, some governors of the party have been making efforts to have their ways and control the party. We know also that some forces in the party have been fighting to resist the move. The election of Atiku and the rebellion in the House of Representatives both reflect the resistance to allow the control of the party by some powerful governors. Although the NWC of the party has held its ground strongly, there is no gainsaying the fact that the rebellion within the party could be a rejection of some dictatorial tendencies. We believe very strongly that the PDP leadership needs to reexamine its engagement with its members to find a solid understanding of party issues. We also believe that the governors elected on the platform of PDP need to unite for the sake of the party. There is also a possibility that some external influences might have infiltrated the party. That is why it is imperative for the party to check itself, do an internal assessment and work towards a stronger, more virile party that would be in contention for the 2023 elections. If not well tackled now, the party might as well be bidding 2023 bye, even as the election is almost four years away.