Manchester United target Bruno Fernandes excelled with a goal and an assist as Liverpool ended their US tour with a 2-2 draw with Sporting. The Portuguese midfielder scored a fortuitous opener inside five minutes at the Yankee Stadium, when his routine effort from 25 yards was misjudged by Simon Mignolet and deflected into his own net. Liverpool responded well and Divock Origi poked in when Jordan Henderson’s header was saved (20) and they took a half-time lead when Giorginio Wijnaldum’s effort struck Luis Neto on its way past Renan Ribeiro a minute before the break. Sporting got back on level terms nine minutes into the second period when Fernandes sold Trent Alexander-Arnold with a lovely turn before feeding Wendel to slot in the equaliser, but despite forcing a number of saves out of Mignolet as the game wore on, the Portuguese side could not find a winner. The one thing no player wanted to make was an early howler – but Mignolet’s nightmare came true when Fernandes’ well-struck but very saveable effort from distance struck his arm and deflected into the bottom corner. Liverpool picked themselves up and levelled in familiar fashion when Wijnaldum kept a long ball into the box alive, crossed for Henderson and Origi mopped up once his captain’s header had been saved. Even without their regular front three their attacking impetus was impressive, but Sporting wasted two fine chances to restore their lead when Wendell saw a fine 20-yard effort clatter off the post and moments later Ilori somehow turned a pinpoint cross wide from no more than six yards, reports sky sports. Liverpool then punished some hesitant defending when Oxlade-Chamberlain’s cross-field ball was misjudged by Ilori who missed it entirely, giving Wijnaldum space to turn inside and beat Ribeiro with the help of a deflection off Neto. There was still time for more at both ends and only Fernandes’ sensational sprint and block stopped Wijnaldum adding a second before half-time, while at the other end Mignolet redeemed his early error with a wonderful double-save from two Luciano Vietto efforts from close-range. After half-time an even game swung in Sporting’s favour and they twice came close to levelling before finally doing so when Fernandes found Alexander-Arnold out of position on the Liverpool right and when the defender caught up with him, turned him with some impressive trickery before squaring for Wendel, who took a touch and fired into the far corner. Liverpool line-up Starting XI: Mignolet; Alexander-Arnold, Matip, Van Dijk, Robertson; Henderson, Milner, Fabinho; Oxlade-Chamberlain, Origi, Wijnaldum.