Two key stakeholders in the health industry have urged the Federal Government to expand the coverage of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) as well as revitalise it to enable the country achieve needed Universal Health Coverage (UHC).
This call was made by leaders of the Health and Managed Care Association of Nigeria (HMCAN) and the Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN) at a joint press conference, which held in Lagos recently.
Chairman of HMCAN, Dr. Tunde Ladele and the President, HCPAN, Dr. Jimmy Arigbabuwo said the regulators of NHIS should be reorganised to deliver their functions in line with global best practices.
To sanitise and standardise the operations of the scheme, the duo has agreed to come up with benefit package and premiums for adoption of the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association, NECA, for its members.
Similarly, they agreed to come up with a universally agreed standardised contracts to eliminate delays in payments for health insurance services.
According to them, the new plan would eliminate delay in outright refusal to pay claims for services rendered as well as ensure prompt dispatch of payment advice.
Ladele and Arigbabuwo said the measures would ensure that agreed service tariffs were maintained in tandem with premiums, which were usually negotiated on annual basis.
In a statement jointly signed by HMCAN and HCPAN, Ladele and Arigbabuwo urged the Federal Government to demonstrate a stronger political will for the accelerated attainment of UCH in the country.
Similarly, they urged the Federal Government to review primary healthcare (PHC) in line with global practice as the cornerstone of healthcare services to account for 80 per cent of healthcare needs of the populace.
On his part, the Secretary of HMCAN, Lekan Ewenla noted that since Primary Healthcare was the cornerstone of healthcare services, there was the need for proper coordination of the scheme especially at the grassroots for proper understanding and participation.
According to Ladele and Arigbabuwo, both HMCAN and HCPAN have unanimously resolved to strategically expand health insurance coverage with expected strong political will from the three tiers of government. , HMCAN and HCPAN said, “State governments starting health insurance programmes are strongly advised to carry along the major stakeholders in the health insurance industry as represented by HCPAN and HMCAN throughout the entire scope, including but not limited to legislative drafting, benefit design, actuarial valuation, tariffs and premium setting. “To continuously provide uninterrupted, qualitative and measurable healthcare services to our enrolees at the healthcare facility, the two critical stakeholders have agreed to maintain an effective and efficient line of communication at all times. “That HMCAN and HCPAN should be allowed to nominate their representatives to the Board of the NHIS to ensure fair and inclusive representation of healthcare industry.”