The leadership of the House of Representatives yesterday said it would mediate in the problem involving the detained leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN), Sheik Ibrahim El Zakzaky following allegations of poison against the Federal Government.
Leader of the House, Hon. Alhassan Ado Doguwa, dropped the hint yesterday when he addressed protesters, who stormed the National Assembly in the evening.
Receiving a letter from the protesters on behalf the National Assembly, Dogowa assured the protesters of the resolve of the ninth House of Representatives to entrench rule of law.
“The 9th house of Representatives Speaker, Rt. Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, has marshaled out a robust, unprecedented legislative agenda, and our Speaker as part of his agenda has decided to entrench the rule of law. It is on that note that I stand here to tell you that, what you are fighting for is a just cause and what you come here for is your entitlement constitutionally.
“I see around me respected gentlemen and my Ulamas, women, youths and another cream of people coming together peacefully to demand exactly what is granted in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
“For this sole reason that you decided to play by the rules and that is why we also responded by coming here to receive all the issues you have raised.
“I can also tell you that we are receiving your issues with our right hand and I can assure you we would also ensure it gets to the right hand. The National Assembly as an institution that believes in law and order.
“The issues currently raised are fundamental and significant and El-Zazaky’s health is very fundamental to us and that of other Nigerians. I personally and my colleagues collectively respect El-Zayzaky and I would like to tell you that on the strength of medical grounds that you brought about mallam which I believe is one of the new things you have raised, he is automatically entitled to our favourable attention. You have come through the right channel.
The protesters under the aegis of Academic Forum of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria in a letter presented to the House by their spokesperson, Mr. Abdulalahi Musa, however demanded for immediate release of their spiritual leader, El -Zayzaky to enable him access treatment overseas.
The group, in the protest letter alleged that: “tyrant Buhari has poisoned Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky (H) and the deafening silence of all those that are detaining Sheikh Zakzaky and his unlawfully is creating high tension.
“On 22nd day of January, 2019, the legal counsel of Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky and Malamah Zeenah Ibraheem made an application requesting unrestricted access to their doctors for urgent medical attention.
“Subsequent to that development, the Kaduna State High Court, presided by Justice G. Kurada, granted the request to allow the defendant’s chosen physicians to examine them.
“Due to bureaucratic, logistical and other challenges, the team of doctors was only able to arrive and examine them in the late April 2019. In order to appraise the situation, the physicians requested that a number of medical investigations be conducted.
“In spite of the fact that most of the facilities capable of carrying out these medical investigations were present in and within the Kaduna Area, much time was wasted due to the DSS insisting that the investigations were to take place in Abuja.
“The DSS eventually allowed both the medical examinations and investigations to take place in Kaduna. Furthermore, the DSS went on to facilitate all the necessary arrangements to make the examinations and investigations successful,” the letter read in part.