 Scientists in France have found a link between the consumption of sugary drinks, including 100 per cent fruit juices, and the risk of cancer. These findings from an observational study is published in ‘’The British Medical Journal (BMJ). For some time now, researchers have been linking sugary drinks with a wide range of health risks. Some of the conditions that previous studies have associated with sweetened drinks are obesity, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Some previous studies in rodents have suggested that the added sugar in soft drinks could drive the spread of cancer and fuel tumour growth. Now, the current research, which examined the links between the intake of sugary drinks and various forms of cancer in 101,257 French adults aged 42 years, has established an association between high intake of sugary drinks and cancer. The first author of the study, Eloi Chazelas, and his team obtained the data for the study from the NutriNet-Santé study. Chazelas is from the Sorbonne Paris Cité Epidemiology and Statistics Research Center in France. The team examined “sugar-sweetened beverages” such as soft drinks, syrups, fruit drinks, 100 per cent fruit juices without any added sugar, milk-based sugary drinks, sports drinks, and energy drinks. They also considered artificially-sweetened drinks, that is, “all beverages containing non-nutritive sweeteners, such as diet soft drinks, sugar-free syrups, and diet milk-based beverages.” Using 24-hour online food questionnaires, the researchers assessed the participants’ consumption of 3,300 different kinds of foods and drinks. Furthermore, clinical observation of the participants continued for up to nine years during which, the researchers looked at the risk of participants to “overall, breast, prostate, and colorectal cancer.” Over the follow-up period, 2,193 people developed cancer for the first time; they were 59 years old at the time of diagnosis, on average. Among all these cases were 693 of breast cancer, 291 of prostate cancer, and 166 colorectal cancer. The analysis revealed that for a daily increase of 100 milliliters in the intake of sugary drinks, the risk of overall cancer rose by 18 per cent and the risk of breast cancer increased by 22 per cent, reported ‘MedicalNewsToday’. When the researchers analysed the risk for 100 per cent fruit juices separately, these also elevated the risk of overall cancer and breast cancer. However, the study found no links with colorectal cancer or prostate cancer. By contrast, diet drinks did not increase cancer risk. The scientists explained that people who consumed diet drinks did so in very small amounts, so they suggested interpreting this particular result with caution. “Since the participants of the NutriNet-Santé cohort were more often women,” they said, “with health-conscious behaviour and higher socio-professional and educational levels than the general French population, this might have resulted in a lower cancer incidence compared with national estimates.