The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday issued a bench warrant for the arrest of the President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick and four other officials of the football body over alleged misappropriation of $8.4 million
The Federal Government had through the Special Presidential Investigation Panel on the Recovery of Public Property, filed 17 count criminal charge marked FHC/ABJ/CR/93/2019 against the NFF officials bordering on alleged misappropriation of $8,400,000 belonging to the football body.
The money was said to have been paid by the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) to the NFF as appearance fees in the group stage of the Brazil 2014 World Cup.
At the resumed trial yesterday, none of the defendants were in court.
Counsel to the NFF however informed the court that the defendants are currently on a national assignment in the Arab Republic of Egypt, where Nigeria’s Super Eagles is participating in the ongoing 32nd Africa Cup of Nations finals.
The prosecution counsel, Celcius Ukpong, consequently apply for their arrest.
In a bench ruling, trial judge, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu, issued the order of arrest following the defendants’ refusal to appear before the court.
Justice Ijeoma made it clear that the warrant would cease to be of any effect once the defence counsel is able to produce evidence that the defendants were listed among the delegates to be in Egypt.
The judge did not hear the application of the NFF officials challenging the jurisdiction of the SPIP.
Other defendants in the suit are; the NFF Secretary, Sanusi Mohammed; the 1st Vice-President, Seyi Akinwumi; the 2nd Vice-President, Shehu Dikko and an Executive member, Yusuff Fresh.
The defendants were also accused of “moving dishonestly and intentionally the sum of about N4bn” belonging to the NFF without the consent of the body.
The NFF officials are also accused of taking cash through a web of schemes, including payments received for “fake friendlies” — games that never happened — as well as unexplained payments to match-agents.
The court later adjourned till September 26.