Former governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba has taken a swipe at Afenifere chieftain, Senator Femi Okurounmu, describing him as a frustrated and unfulfilled politician over claims by the former lawmaker that he betrayed the June 12 struggle. Osoba, who was responding to recent attacks against him by Okurounmu over issues relating to the 1993 presidential election annulment struggle and other issues, said the Afenifere chieftain relentless attacks and criticisms against him were borne out of jealousy, envy and wickedness. The former Ogun State governor, particularly, faulted the claims by Okurounmu that he (Osoba) collaborated with late General Sani Abacha’s regime, while also relating with members of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). Osoba also condemned the attacks against him by Third Republic Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Wale Oshun, describing the claim by Oshun that he didn’t give enough support to fund National Democratic Coalition activities during June 12 struggle as false. It would be recalled that Okurounmu, who was the Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the 2014 National Conference, in a recent interview, described Osoba as a traitor, a double agent, a security agent and one of Yoruba leaders who betrayed the late MKO Abiola, the winner of the June 12 1993 presidential election. But Osoba, said: “I will not descend into using uncouth, insulting and gutter languages like Senator Okurounmu did by referring to me as a traitor, a security agent and a double dealer.  In spite of his sustained attacks on me in the last two weeks, I was unruffled and unmoved as a tested fighter and warrior. “On the day I launched my book, I showed series of pictures and one was me as a boxer at the age of 10.  I also titled my book “Battlelines’ to show a lot of the blackmail that I suffered in both my professional and political life. So, as for Okurounmu, I will describe him as a frustrated, unfulfilled politician as well as a failure in his chosen profession. His relentless attacks on me are borne out of jealousy and the major factor is envy and wickedness. “Yoruba language is highly proverbial and Yoruba will describe Okurounmu’s situation as somebody suffering from proverb that says ‘Ija ilara kii tan boro, anjuwon ko see wi l’ejo’ which means ‘when you are envious you carry that burden almost forever and an envious character cannot easily say the reason why he is envious, particularly as God has been too kind and generous to the person he is envious of’. That is the situation between me and Okurounmu.” On the claim by Okurounmu that he (Osoba) collaborated with late General Sani Abacha’s regime, while claiming to be a member of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), Osoba appealed to the spirits of all those who died in the June 12 1993 struggle to forgive the Afenifere chieftain. He said the claims by Okurounmu will make leaders of NADECO and Afenifere as well as heroes and heroines of the June 12 struggles like late Senator Abraham Adesanya, Alfred Rewane, Bola Ige, Kudirat Abiola and Alex Ibru, among others, who paid the supreme price for the struggle to turn in their graves. His words: “My answer to that (Okurounmu’s claim) is I pray to God in heaven and our heroes, many who died in the cause of the struggle, particularly those unsung, too many people that suffered that are unsung; but I will be specific with our leaders that wherever they are in heaven, I appeal to them to forgive Okurounmu at 80 because of his insinuation that the military government was after me because I was an agent is false. “Sergeant Rogers was categorical, when he was cross-examined by Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, a renowned authority in the Law of Evidence, who was then the Attorney-General of Lagos State. He mentioned names of those of us, who were marked down and they were instructed to assassinate. “I appeal to the spirit of Kudirat Abiola, Alfred Rewane; the spirit of Bola Ige who died in the hands of assassins, the spirit of Olu Onagoruwa and the spirits of those who were hit and a lot of them died in the cause, which include Papa Abraham Adesanya; my brother, good friend and soul mate Alex Ibru. I can go and mention names of those who were marked down by the evidence given in court. “I am still alive. If they were after me as a security collaborator and agent, then Okurounmu destroyed the spirit of these people who died in the cause that all of us who were marked down as stated in the evidence recorded in court by Sergeant Rogers that we are all agents.  May the spirit of those who died in the cause forgive Okurounmu. May their souls continue to rest in peace but what he has done is making all of them turn in their graves.” Debunking the allegation that his governorship election was funded by General Ibrahim Babangida, Osoba said he needed no money from the then head of the military junta as the two registered political parties in the Third Republic, Social Democratic Party (SDP) and National Republican Convention (NRC) were fully funded by then military government. He said: “I am shocked and disappointed at the lack of knowledge and intellectualism displayed by Okurounmu who claims to be a PhD holder. If you are a student of history, the two party system; a little to the right and a little to the left in my time, were well and openly funded by General Babangida’s government. “At that time, voting system was open ballot. You queue openly behind the photograph of your candidate at all levels. So, votes at that time were not monetized. In our time, we didn’t need much money to run our campaign because the parties were funded. We didn’t need to fund the party or buy votes because voting was by open ballot. You queue in the open behind the photographs. What evidence has he that I collected money when the party has already been funded? What do I need the money for when voting was by open ballot?” Commenting on the allegation levelled against him by Oshun, Osoba said: “Wale Oshun was never part of the 49 of us who formed NADECO. NADECO was formed in General Adeyinka Adebayo’s house in Ikeja by coalition of so many people and that was why we called it NADECO. Neither of them was present, so they cannot tell the story of their forefathers. The closest person to me in exile in London was Wale Oshun. He was regular visitor to my house. When I had surgery that lasted for almost three hours, he was the first person I saw by my bedside, when I woke up. Our relationship was that close but I know his problem. “His problem is that under SDP (Social Democratic Party), he failed in Lagos. He was playing his politics in Lagos; he lost out and came to Ogun State. He came to me and said he will like to be my running mate and I said that as democrat like Papa Awolowo who practiced party democracy to the core, I am not going to pick my deputy; I will throw it open to contest. He won at his local government but lost out at the federal constituency and state level and Rafiu Ogunleye emerged as my running mate. He cannot forgive me for not handpicking him as my deputy in 1991. He is still carrying that burden.”