A 31-year-old suspect, Mr. Lawal Daodu, has told operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Ikeja, Lagos State Police Command, that he made approximately N18,000 daily from stealing and selling phones.  Police said the suspect was arrested at Ikeja Computer Village, moments after he dipped his hand into a victim’s pocket and took a mobile phone. Daodu was arrested on Friday about 5p.m. after he picked a phone from a passer-by at Ikeja ‘Under Bridge’.  Lawal, who had before his arrest, steadily picked two android phones from passers-by, was removing another phone from the pocket of another victim, when the phone incidentally fell from his hand, drawing the attention of its owner.  He was promptly arrested by the RRS officers attached to the Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) stationed at Ikeja Under Bridge.  Just as the suspect was explaining the source of the phones in his possession, one of his victims, who was trying to catch a glimpse of what was happening, saw his phone in the suspect’s hands. Daodu said that he operated at Ikeja Computer Village and Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos.  He said: “On Friday, I was at Computer Village as usual and had already picked two phones in the morning, which I sold to my customers at the Computer Village. In the afternoon, I resumed to pick a few phones. I was picking the third one when the owner raised the alarm, which attracted the attention of the RRS men. They arrested me and just as I was trying to prove my innocence, one of my victims identified his phone, which was in my hand.  “I don’t operate every time. I go out may be twice in a week and I make at least N18,000 from stealing phones. There were times I made more than that, especially, when I steal expensive phones. I sell the phones to Afeez and Lanre. They are street guys at the Computer Village. I was trained by Bello. I have not seen him for long.”  The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said the suspect was assisting the police in the arrest of the buyers of the stolen phones.