 The Nigeria Police and the Senate have commenced investigation into allegation of assault by a senator elected on the platform the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Elisha Abbo, on a lady at a sex toy shop in Abuja.
Abbo, a first time senator from Adamawa State, was caught on video, said to have been extracted from a Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) mounted within the complex, assaulting the lady.
But the PDP and the party’s presidential candidate in the February election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, demanded that the law should take its course.
Abbo’s problem began at yesterday’s sitting of the Senate following a point of order, by Senator Uba Sani (APC, Kaduna Central).
Sani who claimed that he received over 110 calls from concerned persons from within and outside the country since the video of the alleged senator’s indecorous action went viral on social media, said that his credibility as a member of the Senate was negatively affected.
“I saw it on the media that one of the distinguished senators here, in the person of Senator Elisha Ishaku Abbo, representing Adamawa North, was caught in a video which has gone viral, assaulting a lady, and that has gone a long way to tarnish the image of this distinguished Senate.
“I therefore, call on this distinguished Senate to take a decisive action to redeem the image of this Senate.
Senator Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central), while condemning the action, however, called for thorough investigation on the matter.
“What we read in the news is a clear violation of the provisions of Sections 33, 34 and 35 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended, which provide respectively for the right to life, right to dignity of human person and right to personal liberty.”
Also contributing, the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, reminded his colleagues that they were privileged to have been elected by Nigerians to represent them, noting that privileges carry responsibilities.
“In our rule books, Sections 56 states very clearly the mode of behaviour of each an every one of us. But as you rightly pointed out, whatever behaviour we exhibit inside here, it is assumed that we should also do the same outside.”
President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan who said the matter remained an allegation until investigated, announced a six-man ad hoc committee to probe the allegation.
The committee members include Senator Sam Egwu (PDP Ebonyi North), Chairman, Oluremi Tinubu (APC, Lagos Central), Matthew Urhoghide (PDP, Edo South), Stella Oduah (PDP, Anambra North), Aduda Jika, Sani Musa and Danladi Sankara.
Also, the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, in a statement by Force Public Relations Officer, Mr. Frank Mba, said the Commissioner of Police in charge of the FCT, Mr. Bala Ciroma, has commenced investigation into the allegation. Mba further noted that the CP has already established contacts with the alleged victim of the assault. “The Inspector General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu has ordered a comprehensive investigation into the circumstances surrounding the alleged assault on a female Nigerian by Senator Abbo Elisha. “Specifically, the IGP directed the Commissioner of Police in charge of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command, CP Bala Ciroma, to provide a personal and round-the-clock supervision of every facet of the investigation, including the forensic analysis of the video currently in circulation as well as the actions/inactions of the Policeman seen in the video footage. “The IGP, while assuring citizens of utmost professionalism by the police in the handling of the matter, promised that the force will ensure that justice is manifestly done in this case irrespective of whose ox is gored,” he said. Meanwhile, Atiku on his twitter handle said PDP should discipline the senator. He also called on the police to ensure that the law takes its course on the matter. Atiku who is also from Adamawa State, described the video as sad and inexcusable. “I know the senator quite well. But the law is clear and leaders must lead by example.” The PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologondiyan said, it has commenced investigation into the matter and summoned Senator Abbo in line with the provisions of its Constitution and code of conduct of its members. The statement added that as a law-abiding and upstanding party, PDP “detests and completely condemn such act of lawlessness and callousness as exhibited in the video and will therefore never condone it.” Last night, the Senator said he was sorry for his action. The Senator, who is already going to face Senate adhoc committee for his misconduct, said he accepted the responsibility and “profoundly apologize to all Nigerians, the Senate, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), my family as well as our mothers, the Nigerian women.” In an emotion laden voice, the embattled senator from Adamawa Sate, said at a press conference yesterday that he was not known or associated with such actions in the past. “Regardless of what transpired prior to my expression of anger, I am sincerely sorry and plead that all men and women of good conscience should have the heart to forgive me. To err is human, to forgive is divine. “I personally apologize to Bibra and her family for my action towards her, which has brought immense discomfort in our body polity,” he stated. Senator Abbo said that he has been taught a great lesson by the incident both as a private citizen and a public officer, particularly as a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria upon whom public confidence is bestowed.