President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, declared that although his government was doing its best, it is not enough for the country.
He said the Federal Government was currently building infrastructure across different sectors of the economy to uplift Nigerians.
The President stated this when he received a delegation of Edo State Council of Traditional Rulers and Chiefs led by Oba Ewuare II at the State House, Abuja.
Speaking to the traditional rulers, Buhari has also urged Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOS) to work harder in injecting more resources and technical expertise to improve supply of electricity across the country, assuring the companies that the Federal Government will sustain efforts in building transmission infrastructure.
In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, President Buhari called on Nigerians to show more understanding with the DISCOS and Federal Government as more expertise and resources would be committed to improving electricity.
He said the supply of gas for transmission has improved overtime and with the collective effort of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and DISCOs, the power situation would be made better.
“We are building infrastructure. We are doing our best, but, obviously, our best is not good enough yet,” he said.
Buhari commended Oba Ewuare II and Edo Sate Traditional Council for intervention in human trafficking by tracking down and discouraging facilitators, and rehabilitating victims that were returned.
“I am pleased that you have taken up the fight against human trafficking and I know the effect of your intervention will be felt beyond our borders,” he added.
On Benin-Abuja road project, the President assured the Edo State leaders that the Ministry of Works will give more attention to the project when ministers assume duty.
He told the elders that the Federal Government was able to achieve food security with teamwork between the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Ministry of Agriculture, states and other stakeholders, including farmers, promising that more will be done to diversify and strengthen the Nigerian economy.
In his remarks, Oba Ewuare II congratulated the President for winning the 2019 elections, urging him to utilise the opportunity to improve the livelihood of the people, particularly issues that directly impact on development like electricity and road infrastructure.
“We pray the almighty God to help you put in place a formidable team of men and women of proven integrity that will join you to take this nation to the next level. Considering that Edo State is the only APC state in the South-South, may we crave Mr. President’s indulgence to have two slots,” he said.
The traditional ruler said the situation of electricity in Edo had worsened over the years, adding: “May I, on behalf of the people of Edo State, use this platform to further appeal to Mr. President to intervene in this pathetic situation.”