•Says neither president nor NEF consulted group   The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) yesterday said that they were not consulted by neither the Federal Government nor the Northern Elders Forum before issuing the order and counter orders on relocating and not relocating as it affects their members.  Even as he stated that the members were not under any pressure to relocate from the southern region of Nigeria to the northern parts of the country.  National Secretary of MACBAN, Mallam Baba Ngelzarma, who disclosed this to Saturday Telegraph said the herders were currently living and doing their businesses across the various states of the federation without any threat and hindrance.  The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) had earlier in the week directed the herdsmen to leave the South and relocate to the North, as according to them, the security and safety of the herders can no longer be assured in Southern Nigeria.  The order came on the heels of the rising tension across the country over the controversial suspended Ruga Settlement programme by the Federal Government and the terror attacks unleashed on innocent citizens by bandits suspected to be herders.  The brutal murder of Mrs. Funke Olakurin, daughter of the leader of Afenifere, the apex Yoruba socio-cultural group, not only sparked national outrage but threats of reprisals against the herders.  To douse the tension, President Muhammadu Buhari, had on Wednesday issued a counter order, directing the herdsmen to remain wherever they have been doing their business as every Nigerian has a constitutional right to settle, live and conduct legitimate businesses anywhere in the country.  Ngelzarma said that MACBAN was indifferent to the order and counter order because neither the Northern Elders Forum nor the Federal Government consulted them before those orders were issued on the relocation of their members.  According to Ngelzarma, contrary to the impression created by the NEF, the herders’ association never received any report of threats to the lives and property of their members doing business in Southern Nigeria and wondered how the issue got to the level where there had to be an emergency order for them to vacate Southern Nigeria.  Below are the excerpts of interview:  In view of the order from Northern Elders Forum asking herdsmen to relocate from the South and the counter order from the Federal Government for them to remain there, which order are the herdsmen to obey now?  Well, as an association, we were not contacted before any of the orders were issued, so we don’t have any comment on them.  What’s the current situation of your members living in the Southern part of the country?  The reports we are getting from our members across the country is that everybody is living peacefully and doing their business without any fear.  So, like I said, we were not contacted by anyone and that is why we don’t want to comment on it.  Why do you think your association was not consulted on the matter?  We only heard it and saw it in the news.  We reserve our comments. Has the controversy affected any of your people?  We are yet to get any report about any of our members being affected one way or the other. Our members are peaceful and are living peacefully where they are. I don’t think there is any threat or problem anywhere.  Does it mean that the Northern Elders Forum and the Coalition of Northern Groups didn’t get their facts right before issuing the order?  We don’t know. We have no comment on this. We cannot comment on it because we don’t know.  What is your stand on the RUGA policy?  It has been suspended by the Federal Government; we are waiting for the details of the suspension.  We in the national executive of the association need to meet before we come up with a position. As it is now we have no position on it.  If I speak, it should be the position of the association and not my personal view.  Since these matters have not been brought to the table for discussion, I have no comments to make on them because I don’t work for myself, I work for the association.  What message do you have for your members given the prevailing controversy and tension everywhere?  They should ensure that there is peace everywhere.  They should remain in peace and ensure that there is peace wherever they are.