Experts in Enugu said that environmental pollution and poor management system in the health sector were responsible for high rate of deaths resulting from respiratory diseases such as asthma. The experts who spoke in Enugu at the weekend, include former Minister of Health, Prof. Onyebuchi Chukwu; Professor of Public Health, Prof Tunji Olaopa; Consultant Public Health Physician, University of Nigeria, Enugu Campus, Prof. Benjamin Uzochukwu; former Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council of Obafemi Awolowo University, Prof Rowland Ndoma-Egba; and the Executive Secretary of Anambra State Investment Promotion and Protection Agency. Dr. Ifediora Obi spoke at the 2019 ‘Amaka-Uba National Asthma Conference’ at Oakland Hotel Enugu. Speaking on the theme of the conference, “Better Breathing; Better Living: The Role of the Government and Governance,” Chukwu, who served as chairman of the conference, stated that government has a great task than before to tackle environmental pollution, while considerable low-cost asthmatic clinics should be built in the rural areas with modern equipment to help fight the disease. Chukwu called for training of doctors and other health personnel who can treat and cure asthma even as he stressed that information was the panacea to educate the populace and fight against the menace of environmental pollution. On his part, Prof. Olaopa who stated that 339 million people live with asthma worldwide while 15 million Nigerians live with the ailment with the projection of reaching more than 100 million people in 2025, called for institutional reform of health management system in the country. “Lack of institutional capacity is the greatest challenge against asthma treatment as there is no specific asthma management guideline. “In Nigeria, the management of asthma is left in the hands of non-governmental organisations (NGOs)…bad governance has generally left the health system in Nigeria in coma. Some hospitals lack basic diagnostic equipment and drugs/kits to manage asthma,” he said. In his remarks, Founder and Chairman of the Board of Amaka Chiwuike-Uba Foundation (ACUF), Chiwuike Uba, Ph.D; stated that the foundation was established in memory of his wife who died of asthma related ailment in 2016 at the age of 42, noting that the Foundation would help asthma patients live a better life. “As part of the overall operational asthma management strategy, in addition to this annual asthma conference, medical outreaches/missions and other periodic workshops/seminars, ACUF develops and distributes asthma management education and training to schools, churches and other relevant institutions and create asthma awareness on a continuous basis through live radio and television programmes,” he said. in his presentation, Prof. Benjamin Uzochukwu, who was represented by Dr. Chuka Agunwa sated that Nigeria must embrace green economy as well as reform her obsolete environmental policies given the increasing urbanisation. Dr. Ifediora Amobi although Africa has low asthma cases but it records higher deaths due to poor management system.