Nine motorists, who were arrested for driving against the traffic on Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, were yesterday sentenced to 20-hour community service by the Lagos Mobile Court. With the court’s pronouncement, the drivers will cut sweep or grasses in public places for 20 hours for flouting the Lagos Traffic Law. The erring drivers were arraigned before Magistrate Salau Omobola of the Lagos State Mobile Court for driving against the traffic at Cele and Iyana-Isolo axis of Oshodi-Mile 2 corridor. The offence is prohibited by law and is punishable under Part (III), Item 27 of the ‘Transport Sector’ of Lagos State 2018. In addition to other punishments, Omobola also pronounced outright forfeiture of their vehicles to the state government after the drivers pleaded guilty to the one-way traffic offence charge levelled against them. The vehicles forfeited to government are Acura car with registration APP 39 EX, Toyota Hilux marked KSF 374 DH, Nissan Small bus (KJA 646 XT), Peugeot car (APP 437 FN), LT Volkswagen bus (JJJ 822 XT), Volkswagen ‘T4 bus’ (KTU 169 XJ), Volkswagen (KRD 438 XL), two Volkswagen buses marked EKY 946 FT and KRD 793 XT. It was learnt that the erring motorists and vehicles were arrested and impounded by the operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences Unit. The task force Chairman, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, said 21 vehicles were impounded while nine drivers were apprehended. According to him, 12 drivers abandoned their vehicles and fled. Egbeyemi said that there had been complaints from motorists and residents that activities of these one-way drivers were causing gridlock along that axis on a daily basis. He said: “These 21 one-way impounded vehicles and nine arrested drivers ran into our enforcement team while we were returning from demolition exercise at Eric Moore and Orile-Iganmu on Lagos-Badagry Expressway. “Honestly speaking, it is disappointing that with high level of enlightenment campaigns and several warnings by government, motorists, including private car owners, can still be driving against flow of traffic in such a long magnitude thereby blocking on-coming vehicles to a standstill at Iyana-Isolo.” Egbeyemi, however, advised other remaining 12 drivers who were at large to immediately report to the agency for prosecution.