Ondo State Governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu yesterday said his administration would not mismanage Local Government’s fund or violate the law setting up the third tier of government.
Akeredolu, who was swearing in newly appointed Commissioners, Special Advisers and the Caretaker Chairmen of the 18 local government areas of the state, said he would ensure judicious use of Local Government funds.
The Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) had on June 1, started payment of allocation from the federation account directly to the accounts of the Local Governments contrary to the position of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum.
Akeredolu, however, assured the people of the State that his administration had no intention to authorise the management of any local government to embark on projects inconsistent with the law establishing the councils, saying he would continue to ensure that the funds allocated for the running of local government were judiciously utilised.
Also, he asked the new appointees to rise above licentious and irresponsible behaviour in the service of their fatherland.
Akeredolu told them to justify the trust reposed in them on the strength of their recommendation for the appointments.
He said: “Most of those who have been sworn in today are not new to the system. Some of them had served the state in various capacities before the commencement of our administration.
“Others have been with the government serving in different fields. There is no denying the fact that almost all of the appointees made the shortlist, highly recommended by dint of impactful service in the past or at present.
“A few appointments have also been made for inclusion, a policy necessary for amity in politics.
“What remains is justification for the trust reposed in you on the strength of this recommendation.
“All political appointees owe the public a duty of care and respect. The welfare of the people must be the focus of all activities.
“Loyalty to political leadership is essential. Respect for the rule of law is not negotiable. Optimum service delivery should be the goal, otherwise governance becomes banditry.”