   Could you give a brief introduction of yourself and what motivated you into joining The Lions Club?  My name is Lion John Lucky Oriazowan, NLCF. I am from Edo state, Esan Central Local Government. I am a Second Class Upper graduate of Lagos State University and I have an MBA in view with the Netherlands Business School along with some other qualifications and trainings I have undergone. Charity, they say, begins at home, I came from a family that understands what it takes to care for each other. I also wanted to appreciate God for his love and blessings towards me and by giving back to my community and I consider joining the club a perfect way for me to do this.  How long have you been a Lion and who introduced you to Lions Club?  I have been an active member since 2014, precisely 5 years now. I was introduced into the Lions Clubs International Association by a very dear friend and a sister today, Blessing Umebali, NLCF who at the time I joined was the Club President of Lions Clubs International, Ikeja Metro Lions Club.  5 Years as a Lion, what are the lessons learnt and how have you made an impact on your community?  A lot has been learnt both internationally and locally, that service to humanity should be or is a must for all of us to practice. I have seen and truly realised that we need each other to be able to make our community a better place. The government can’t do it all; we need to be involved in community and in human capacity development at individual levels.  In which other capacities have you served before now?  That was why I said I have been active since joining, upon joining and after my induction and orientation, the club president then saw my zeal and passion for service. She immediately appointed me as the Club Assistant Project Director in 2014, then in the 2016 Lionist Year, I was elected into the position of Project director after realising that I had worked before as Assistant Project Director. I became Club Secretary 2016, I got an award as one of the Best Club Secretaries by the International President of that year, Bob Chancellor. In 2017, I rose to become the club’s 2nd Vice President and moved further up the ladder to First Vice President and today I am the Club President of Lions Club International, Ikeja Metro Lions Club.  Your tenure started on July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020, what legacy (ies) do you want to leave behind?  In all sincerity, I wish I could do it all but many projects have been outlined for this year ranging from diabetes awareness, youth empowerment, environmental aware- ness, vision awareness and caring for the blind. I am particularly concerned about education and health matters. My legacy project would be to see how to build school library, class room maintenance or renovation, school academic materials support and pediatric childhood cancer awareness.  Knowing that members are the backbone of the club, how do you intend to boost your club in terms recruiting quality members?  Yes! Publicity is key, I will engage the media houses each time we are carrying out a project and when people see what we do I am convinced they will join us. What makes up a club are the members. Members who understand most importantly what it’s to care for your community so I believe the good things we are doing will attract people to join us.  You are a CEO and expectedly a very busy man, how do you intend to balance these key areas of your roles?  I am the Managing Director of Global Macron Pace Limited, an agro allied and cassava flour value chain consultants. It’s not really easy but then the reality is we have to look for a way to balance life with all other surrounding factors. If we don’t pay attention to our community, it might come back to affect us, if not now, then surely in future.  What is your advice for our Nigerian youth out there that are into drugs, internet fraud, kidnapping and so on?  It’s quite unfortunate that many of our young ones find it easy to be lured into all kinds of nefarious activities. I, however, enjoin others to please not give in to peer pressure. They should be focused, patient and be determined for greatness that is possible for everyone.  In a sentence describe who you are?  Lion John lucky Oriazowan, very playful. I love children and hate to see people feeling sad. I am passionate about offering services to humanity.  What has life taught you and what are your hobbies?  Life has taught me a lot while growing up, it wasn’t easy but I tell people most importantly, to be patient, to be kind and surround themselves with like minds. I love football and that makes me a diehard fan of Arsenal Football Club.  Give 5 key areas you want to focus on during your tenure  Focusing on the community, going to the rural areas to impact on them positively by providing borehole water. Providing school uniforms to children who can’t afford them, eye surgery, child pediatric among others.