In the run up to the last presidential election in the country, the state of the economy was high on the agenda of the presidential candidates.   The presidential hopefuls went about town campaigning for a new point of departure and a way forward towards salvaging the country’s economic predicament.   However, it is clear that the efforts to get the economy kicking again through agriculture is facing serious challenges with the South failing to leverage on palm oil, rubber, cocoa and other resources, while the North abandoned its groundnut pyramids contending that cattle farming is now the main stay of the Northern economy.   But due to climate change, the Northern vegetation has been depleted and the so-much pressure on what is left of its vegetation has been reduced to a near desert encroachment and deepening its situation is the close extinction of the Lake Chad Basin.   This led to the mass exodus of the Fulani herdsmen down South, which still has a lot of arid land for their cattle to graze on which has thrown up another problem – frequent clashes between the farmers and cattle rearers.   This fresh problem has forced the issue onto the front burner with various ideas springing up on how to curtail it.   Economic concepts such as cattle ranching, cattle colony and now Ruga have come into the picture with the South East area through its apex socio-cultural organisation, Ohaneze Ndigbo insisting that its vast rich vegetation cannot be surrendered on the altar of national unity.  And now in a bid to reduce its dependence on cow meat by the Igbos of the South East the area have now recalled that they at some point had their own cattle known as Efi Igbo or Evi Igbo.   Today almost all parts of the South East have embarked on Igbo cattle farming hence vindicating the agrarian policy of the former East Central State propounded by late Michael Okpara the then Premier of the Eastern Nigeria.   Before the Nigerian Civil War, cattle farming was executed in commercial quantity along with goat and sheep herding and virtually every home stead can boast of 10 to 20 Igbo cattle.   Efi Igbo was revered and its consumption was highly celebrated. Efi Igbo is only slaughtered when a great man of accomplishment is taking a title or is being buried.   Areas in the South East such Imo and Abia states also celebrated Efi Igbo which is also used for cleansing when the land is desecrated ordinarily the people of Imo and Abia state prepared stock fish known as Okporoko in Igbo parlance.   The stock fish is never missing in the pot of every Igbo woman and the man of the house must have Okporoko in his strategic reserve in anticipation of a special guest or a great friend visiting.   Sad as it may appear, the civil war did not help matters as the war sent most of the Efi Igbo cattle ranch and farms to near extinction.   According to Prof. Arinze Ezekwe of the Department of Animal Science University of Nigeria, Nsukka: “It is regrettable that the Civil War was one of the major factors that affected the Igbo cattle when soldiers on both sides of the war sacked communities and killed the cattle which they used as food.”   He lamented that in the present day Igbo land, Efi Igbo are only being kept by older people insisting that the younger generation most show interest in sustaining the animals otherwise they would go into extinction when the older generation pass on.   Still on the Nigerian Civil War, the economic blockade introduced by the then regime of General Yakubu Gowon against the then Bite of Biafra banned with heavy sanctions the importation of stock fish which Ndigbo preferred to the Fulani cattle and ultimately compelled the area to choose it as the only alternative and with the erosion of time Ndigbo abandoned even the local Ewu Igbo (Igbo goat) and Atulu Igbo (the Igbo ram) for their Northern species hence sentencing most of the Igbo race to eating beef from cows brought from the North.   However, this current consciousness has given impetus to the diversification of the South East economy from normal buying, selling and manufacturing to the Efi Igbo farm business.   Already three Igbo business moguls have acquired several hectares of green vegetation for their cattle ranching.   In Ebonyi State cattle ranching has been there for ages with private farmers managing their business with relish.   But Anambra State appears to have injected the much desired impetus for the rearing of Igbo cattle and Governor Willie Obiano is not making any mistake about this project.   Agriculture on the inception of his first term in office was one of the pillars of his administrations’ five point agenda and enablers.   His success story in Ugu; vegetable cultivation and bitter leaf,   Olugbu is already a commodity for export in the last five years.   Today his administration has commenced the rearing of Efi Igbo in commercial quantities and farm settlements are bound in Umuchu, Umunze and some parts of Omabala coastal region in Anambra South senatorial zone. There are private Efi Igbo farms in parts of Ogbaru Local Government Area and also in some parts of Idemili North and South council areas.   When this reporter visited Agulu town in Anaocha Local Government Area over 80 head of Efi Igbo were seen grazing and at night to all come to settle at the Nkwo Agulu village market till dawn.   Ironically the Efi Igbo do not stray onto peoples’ farmland to graze rather they visit the wild areas to graze without any herdsman shepherding them.   Pa Cyril Amaobi aka Uwadiegwu is a Dibia meaning a traditional priest attached to the Agulu Deity called Haaba.   He took Sunday Telegraph round the unfarmed areas where the Efi Igbo were grazing and he told the story of the Agulu cattle.   “We use to have Efi Igbo in our homes in the past but some people complained that the cows use to destroy things so in 1980 Agulu banned the domestication of the cattle. These cattle that you see are a mixture of private cattle and cattle belonging to Haaba.   “If you desecrate the land or there is taboo on the land you must provide Efi Igbo to Haaba for cleansing along with some other things. Some people that own Efi Igbo also allow them to graze and move along with the Haaba cattle and you use a certain mark to identify your own so that you do not commit yourself by mistakenly killing the ones belonging to the deity,” he explained.   Amaobi noted that an average size of Efi Igbo is sold at N150,000 each while a full grown one could cost as much as N200,000 to N250,000.  “We have over 80 of them in Agulu and they do not harm anyone and they do not go to people’s farm lands. They do not have herdsmen controlling them. They go into the bush to graze unlike the ones owned by the Fulani people,” he added.    He further explained that the Efi Igbo farmers also interface with their colleagues in other parts of Igbo land noting that at the moment there are plans on to form a kind of association to encourage the business.   At Umuchu community in Aguata Local Government Area, a silent revolution is indeed taking place as regards Efi Igbo.   Prince Ugochukwu Okpalaeke the CEO of Eagle Food Processing Industries in Umuchu has been one of the propagators of Efi Igbo rearing and he is currently partnering with the Anambra State government.   Recently the Anambra State Commissioner for Agriculture Mr. Nnamdi Onukwuba paid a working visit to the farm where he announced that Governor Obiano’s administration is desirous of providing aids for farmers to go into full scale cattle rearing with emphasis on breeding Igbo specie of cows.   Before now Prince Okpalaeke, who is also Chairman of the Poultry Association of Nigeria (PAN) the founder of Osimirri Farm Located at Umunze in Orumba South Local Government Area of the state, called on the governors of the Southeast State to provide farmers with strong support capable of inspiring and motivating them to do more in the business of cattle breeding more especially breeding the Igbo specie cattle known as Efi  Igbo.   He, however, lamenting that rich men are acquiring lands in Igbo land against the pressing need to develop agriculture.   Prince Okpalaeke told the governors that farmers have the intention and also capable to breed cattle but they are nowhere near what it takes to do the business in terms of facilities like land, man power and funding lamenting that rich men in virtually every place in Igbo land are acquiring lands for other businesses against the interest of all important agricultural development at this point in time.   He maintained: “As a farmer I can assure that it is possible to breed cattle in Igbo land but the problem is that we don’t have land. Those that have money among us are buying every space to build markets, business plazas, housing estates and petrol filling stations and never show interest in developing farm lands. I appreciate the efforts of our Governor, Chief Willie Obiano towards the improvement of agriculture in Anambra State.   “Obiano is very friendly with farmers and that inspires and motivates agricultural production in Anambra. Other Commissioners before Onukwuba never visited us here and that is to prove that the governor is in touch with farmers. We have started breeding Efi Igbo with support of the governor, but we need more aids to go further for mass production.   “My fear remains availability of land because these traders are buying off everywhere and the state has to take note of that. Also in response to the governor’s clarion call on the breeding of Efi Igbo the Children of Farmers Club (CFC) led by Christopher Okwuosa has a settlement ranch at Ogbaru River Niger coastal line and are currently at work awaiting government patronage.”   Similarly, Nze Okee Igboegbunam in a memo to the state government posited that: “Let the present governments of the Southern states formulate policies that engender mechanization, the Zik/Okpara post-independence Obudu Ranch approach, later up scaled by the government of Donald Duke or, the 1964 Mokwa Cattle Ranch techniques of then North West State, with arrangements for feeder molasses from off the sugar factories at Jebba.   “Except efforts are geared to reinvent the Obudu ranching stratagem or, the North West/German management of MCR (of a 21st century setting), the farmer vs. herdsmen clashes may not abate.   “The states Houses of Assembly must as matter of urgency start tampering their current allocations to accommodate cattle ranching intervention.”