Fifty-six days after his inauguration, President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, sent the list of 43 nominees to the Senate for screening as ministers. WALE ELEGBEDE profiles the seven incoming cabinet members who are women   During his first term in office in 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari started out with six women in his 36-person cabinet. The six women sworn in as ministers were; Khadija Ibrahim (State for Foreign Affairs), Kemi Adeosun (Finance), Aisha Abubakar (State for Industry, Trade and Investment), Zainab Ahmad (State for Budget and National Planning), Amina Mohammed (Environment) and Aisha Alhassan (Women Affairs).  But in 2019, though with a proposed enlarged cabinet number of 43, the president only nominated seven women as members of the Federal Executive Council. This only gave women 16.3 per cent representation in the cabinet. Just like the executive, women also had dwindled fortunes in the legislature in the current 9th Assembly.  In the immediate past National Assembly which has a combined membership of 469 members, it only had in its fold eight female senators and 15 female House of Representatives members.  However, a decline occurred in the current National Assembly as women only have six female senators and 13 female House of Representatives members in the 9th Assembly.  The extant National Gender Policy (NGP) recommended 35 percent affirmative action and sought for a more inclusive representation of women with at least 35 per cent of both elective and appointive public service positions respectively.  Out of the seven nominated ministers by President Buhari, namely, Sharon Ikeazor, Zainab Ahmed, Gbemisola Saraki, Ramatu Tijjani-Aliyu, Sadiya Farouk, Mariam Katagun and Pauline Tallen, only Ahmed was returning as cabinet member after first serving as Minister of State for Budget and subsequently as Minister of Finance in the President’s first term.   Zainab Ahmed Regarded as a thoroughbred professional, 59-year-old Ahmed was appointed Minister of State for Budget and Planning in 2015 and later substantive Minister of Finance in 2018 following the resignation of Kemi Adeosun. She is the daughter of Yahaya Hamza, the foster father of Nasir el-Rufai, governor of Kaduna state.  She holds a degree in Accounting from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and a Master’s in Business Administration from Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ogun State. She once served as the executive secretary of Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI).  Pauline Tallen  Tallen is a former deputy governor of Plateau State and ex-Minister of State for Science and Technology. The 60-year-old later contested the governorship election in 2011 but lost to Gov- ernor Jonah Jang.  The University of Jos Sociology graduate defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to APC before the 2015 election. She is the first female to be a deputy governor in the northern region. She is a board member of National Agency for Control of Aids (NACA).  Gbemisola Saraki  Fifty four-year-old Gbemisola is the daughter of Olusola Saraki, former strongman of Kwara politics, and a sibling of Bukola Saraki, President of the 8th Senate. She was elected into the House of Representatives in 1999 to represent Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency, Kwara State in the Green Chamber. She holds a Bachelors degree in Economics from the University of Sussex.  She did her national service at the Nigeria Bank for Commerce and Industry, Lagos. She worked for the Societe Generale Bank (Nigeria) as Head of Money Markets and later as Head of Domiciliary Accounts.  From 1994 to 1999 she was Executive Director of Ashmount Insurance Brokers, Lagos. Gbemisola was elected senator representing Kwara Central Senatorial District in 2003.  She held this position till 2011 when she tried to succeed her brother who was governor of Kwara between 2003 and 2011 but she lost despite having the backing of her father. She defected to the APC in 2015 and was believed to have worked against her brother’s re-election at the last general elections.  Sadiya Farouq She hails from Zurmi Local Government of Zamfara State. She was educated at the Federal Government Girls’ College Gusau, Zamfara State and Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Kaduna State graduating with a Bsc. in Business Administration (Actuarial Science) in 1998, before proceeding to earn her Master’s degree in International Affairs and Diplomacy in 2008 and also her Masters in Business Administration (MBA) in 2011 from Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, Kaduna State. She is the Federal Commissioner of National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons.   Farouq served as National Treasurer of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) between 2011 and 2013, and later as Interim National Treasurer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) between 2013 and 2014 before her appointment as Member, APC Presidential Campaign Council where she served in the directorates of election planning and monitoring, field operations and fundraising.  Sharon Ikeazor  Ikeazor is the Executive Secretary of Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD). In 2011, she was elected the National Women Leader of CPC and emerged APC’s interim National Women Leader after the merger that produced the ruling party.  In 2014, she was appointed to APC Board of Trustees (BoT). Sharon started her primary school education at the St Mary’s Convent School Lagos and went to Queen of the Rosary College Onitsha for her secondary education and the Godolphin School Salisbury England for Higher Studies at the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria.  She obtained her Bachelor of Law (LL.B Hons.) from the University of Benin and Certificate of Practice from the Nigerian Law School in 1985. Sharon, who hails from Anambra State, runs a prison outreach programme that pays the fines of awaiting trial persons and also undertakes free legal representation for inmates.  Mariam Katagum  Ambassador Katagum from Bauchi State is Nigeria’s Ambassador and Permanent Delegate to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), a role that she has occupied since June 2009.   A deputy director at the Ministry of Education, she occupied the office of the Secretary-General of the Nigerian National Commission for UNESCO between 2001 and 2009.  The Ahmadu Bello University graduate is also the deputy chairman of the Board of Governors of the Commonwealth of Learning (COL) and member representing Nigeria on the UNESCO executive board.  Katagum holds a Masters in Administration and Planning from the University of Lagos, a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in English, a Graduate Certificate in Education at the Ahmadu Bello University, as well as a Certificate in Social Development Policy, Planning and Practice at the University College, London.  She was awarded a UNESCO Fellowship in 1999.  Ramatu Tijani Forty nine-year-old Ramatu Tijjani is the National Women Leader of APC. She is the first female National Vice- Chairman (North-Central zone) of the then leading opposition political party, the All Peoples Party (APP). In 2010, she became the National Woman Leader of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and in June 2014, she became the National Woman Leader of APC.   She attended Federal Government College, Minna and proceeded to Ahmadu Bello University to obtain a degree in Urban and Regional Planning. She also has an M.PA in Public Administration from Nasarawa State University, Keffi and a D.PA in Public Administration, Honoris Causa, from the Commonwealth University, London. She is representing Kogi State in the list.  