 In order to provide access to neurological services with a view to stem medical tourism, a Consultant Neurosurgeon, Dr. Biodun Ogungbo has announced plans to establish a Brain and Spine Surgery Hospital in Abuja.
Ogungbo, a diaspora returnee surgeon, in an exclusive interview with the New Telegraph, said possible satellite facilities would extend brain and spine services to other states such as Lagos, Rivers State and Aba.
The diaspora returnee presented an epic 3D health care animation short film recently, showing medical conditions including spinal cord injury, brain problems, stroke, among others that will be effectively managed and treated at the Brain and Spine Centre.
The 3Danimated film was released to showcase surgical outcomes following spine surgery performed in Nigeria through the skills of a Nigerian 3D design agency.
The aim of this development according to Ogungbo, was to reverse medical tourism, encourage confidence in spine surgery in Nigeria and hopefully contribute to stemming the flood of Nigerians going abroad for surgery.
In his words, the consultant neurosurgeon said, “Why risk going abroad when you can get an equally, if not better outcome here in Nigeria. Even if you’re in the the United Kingdom (UK), you’re likely to be operated on by a Nigerian surgeon.”
The UK trained neurosurgeon during an interview said, the Brain And Spine Surgery (BASS) Limited in Abuja started off as a special purpose vehicle to make spine surgery acceptable in Nigeria and the business was called SPINE FIXED IN NIGERIA.
More so, he said. “The development will be improved through consortium collaborations with other hospitals so as to provide holistic treatment as one hospital cannot provide the whole gamut of care required.
“Their outcomes both morbidity and mortality will be regularly published to improve local confidence.”
Consequently, Dr. Ogungbo similarly explained that like other young doctors, he was once forced to leave the country because of the conditions of poor service and hostile environment.
Also, he said the government of the day has shown little care about healthcare industry otherwise they would have actively discouraged foreigners from coming to spirit away our trained healthcare practitioners.
Nevertheless, he stressed that this new development would invest in creating a soft landing platform that enables the diaspora based neurosurgeons to thrive when they relocate to Nigeria as this will help build bridges that will cause their easy assimilation into the healthcare system, this is the remit of the government as it requires their serious interest and funding.
He further said that, this new and beneficial development has come to stay as they have pitched their tent in Nigeria to continue to deliver care of international standard.
The doctor who has always been an avid promoter of health care postulated by saying that quality of care and great outcomes could be assured at the Brain and Spine Surgery Hospital just according to their motto.