 I only asked that my husband be beaten, not killed  A man, who introduced himself as Nnaa Kingsley, has narrated how he was invited by a housewife, Mrs. Doughlas Ajemine (41), to teach her husband Inedugoba Tyger (40) a lesson over an alleged domestic violence, but ended up killing him at the Abalama area of Rivers State. ‘Why we had to kill Tyger’ Kingsley said: “In December 2018, I met Ajemine at Egbelu Odara Junction in Ogbogoro Town. I was with my friend, Sunny.  The woman told us that her husband was maltreating her and she was looking for Civil Society Organisation (CSO); I told her that I was no longer into such. She told me that her husband was taking all her properties and that he beats her every day.  “I told her that whenever her husband visited that she should call us or shout so that people in the community would come out to help. “Later on, she called, saying that she wanted us to beat the man. She told us that her husband used to come to her house in Ogbogoro to see her and that he also used to come to Abalama, which is her house, to beat and take all the money she has. In January 2019, she gave us N50, 000; she said that she would call us whenever the man was with her in Abalama, which was 45 minutes’ drive.  “Once she called that her husband was with her in Abalama; but we disappointed her. On January 26, 2019, she called in the afternoon, saying that the man was coming. She said we should come to beat him. We then took a cab from Chuba to Buguma, and took a motorcycle ride to Abalama. We waited for her call until 12am; she then called that her husband was sleeping, that we should come. When we got there, both of them were naked. They had just finished having sex.  “The room was dark; the woman flashed a touch for us. We saw the man in bed; Sunny wrapped the man’s face with a wrapper and a pillow. I started beating the man. He woke up and started struggling. He was shouting. The man removed what Sunny tied on his face.  Sunny and the man recognized each other. They started speaking their Kalabari language. I didn’t understand what they were saying or talking about. And then Sunny said we should kill the man since he had seen his face. I held him down, while Sunny strangled him. We called the woman, who was outside. We told her that her husband had died. She said that she didn’t ask us to kill him. She brought out a shovel and showed us a space to bury him. Woman had sex with her husband’s killer less than 24hours after his murder “The next day, which was Sunday, she called and gave us N30,000.  In the evening, she called again, that she wanted me to come and have sex with her. We met in a hotel and had sex for two straight hours. A week later, we met again in that same hotel in Egbelu Town. We also had sex for the third time. I stopped responding to her calls because she wanted to turn me to her new husband. Since the day I killed that man, I have not forgiven myself. I have gone to church to pray and asked God for forgiveness. Now that police have arrested me, I believe that God has truly forgiven me.”  How police unravelled murder of ‘missing husband’ Ajemine was trailed and arrested by operatives of the Inspector- General of Police (IGP) Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT), headed by a Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abba Kyari. The Unit ventured into the case after receiving directives from the IGP, Mohammed Adamu. Police launched investigation in February after Tyger appeared to have mysteriously disappeared off the face of the earth. The deceased disappeared after a political event within his community.  The police said: “Tyger, at the time of his death, had a misunderstanding with his wife, Ajemine. The tense situation in their matrimonial home led to his moving out. He relocated to Port Harcourt. The 2019 General Elections provided him an opportunity to reconcile with Ajemine. Rather than his wife accepting the reconciliation move, she made arrangements with two other persons to kill Tyger in their Abalama residence.  “It was while her husband was sleeping that the killers sneaked into the apartment and strangled him. They took his corpse to the back of the apartment and buried him. After he was buried, Ajemine took his car to a nearby market and left it there. She also sent messages to his brothers  using Tyger’s phones; posing as Tyger, she typed that he would be travelling out the state on a business trip.” When Tyger’s brothers waited for days without hearing from him, they became uneasy.  They repeatedly tried calling his mobile phones, but they were always switched off. They alerted the police and IRT operatives were detailed to investigate the case.  The operatives thought it was another kidnapped case, but six months into the investigations, however, they unravelled the mystery behind Tyger’s disappearance. They discovered that he was murdered. After Ajemine was grabbed, she mentioned those she hired to kill Tyger. She also led police to the killer, Kingsley. The killer took police to where Tyger was buried and his remains were exhumed. Ajemine, after Tyger was dead, sold one of his phones and inserted her SIM into the second phone.  IRT operatives used the phone to nail her. It is also instructive to mention that before Tyger left to see Ajemine, he confided his whereabouts to his friend, Ibiye Dokubo, a politician. Dokubo’s knowledge that Tyger went to see Ajemine and the tracking of Tyger’s phone to Ajemine made her to become a person of interest. ‘I only asked that my husband be beaten, not killed’ While fielding questions from    journalists, Ajemine explained that she met Tyger in 2014. They fell in love and got married the following year.  Tyger and Ajemine came into the marriage with two kids each from previous relationships. Ajemine, who works with the Rivers State Primary Health Care, in Asari Toru Local Government Area, revealed that Tyger was killed and buried in a shallow grave on January 25, 2019. She said: “Whenever my husband wants to have sex with me, he would beat and then rape me. He later abandoned me and moved into a new apartment in Port Harcourt with another woman.”  She said: “Before I accepted to marry him, he pleaded with me to become a mother to his two children. He said that the children were out of school because there was no woman taking care of them. I accepted and moved into his house. I started taking care of his children. I used to spend two weeks with the children and then I will move to my own house to be with my own children. When he proposed that I should move into his home, I accepted and moved in with my second son.  “My husband worked with Elf Oil and Gas. He had a court case with his company. At a point, he couldn’t pay his rent. By January 2016, he was sacked from his job. We relocated to our village in Buguma and his children were all staying in my house.”  She recollected that in April 2016, Tyger got some money from his former company and went to pay her bride price. They would later move   to his family’s house. Ajemine said that it was there that Tyger became aggressive and abusive. She felt that it was because he no longer had a job. She said: “He shouted when there was no need and hit me when he shouldn’t. I advised him to look for a job. He went into oil bunkering, while still hunting for a job. We moved to Port Harcourt, while retaining a home at Abalama.  By December, 2017, he started beating me. He stopped me from coming to Port Harcourt to meet him.” Ajemine further explained: “Last April, my son and his daughter sat for JAMB. My son passed and his daughter failed. We agreed to buy a pre-degree form; but he stopped responding to our demands. I took his daughter to the Port Harcourt house to see him, there we discovered that a woman was living with him.” Angry, Ajemine packed all the woman’s clothes and took them to his family. Tyger came for the clothes and burnt those of Ajemine. She further alleged that whenever he came to their Abalama’s residence, he would pick one or two items, and then sell them. Whenever Ajemine protested, he would beat her severely, she said. She narrated: “I moved out of that house in Abalama to Port Harcourt after he got a charm to kill me. He didn’t know where I was staying. In January 2019, he called that he wanted to collect a metal ladder that was with me.  “Before then, I had met Kingsley at Egbelu area of Port Harcourt. Egbelu was the area I rented an apart  ment. I told him that I was new in the area and that my husband would want to come there to harass me. “Kingsley promised to assist me. On the day Tyger came to collect the ladder, he wanted to have sex with me, but I refused. He tore my clothes; I ran out and called Kingsley. I was crying on the phone. He came with his friend and they started beating my husband. Tyger was crying; I couldn’t bear it. I went outside. When I came back, I asked for my husband, they told me that he was dead. They warned me not to tell anyone if I didn’t want my children and I to be killed.  “They took my husband to Sandfiled, close to our house and buried him, but I didn’t follow them to the exact spot. I then took his car to an abandoned market in Egbelu, where I parked it. I left the key inside the car. I then took my husband’s phones, and sent text messages to his family members. I made it look like Tyger was sending the messages to them. “I sold one of the phones for N15,000.  Kingsley, who killed Tyger, started calling me for money. I gave him a total sum of N150, 000. He also started having sex with me. In February 2019, my husband’s friend, Ibiye Dokubo, came on Facebook, accusing me of knowing what happened to my husband. There were other people also accusing me. I went on Facebook and countered what they said. I went to see a lawyer and wrote a petition against Ibiye Dokubo. I was still waiting for the police to invite Dokubo, when IRT operatives came to arrest me.”  