…proposes N10trn Infrastructure Bond  The immediate past Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, yesterday, declared that inadequacy of funds is the major problem hindering infrastructural development in the country. Fashola, who made the declaration, while fielding questions from senators at the ongoing ministerial screening by the Senate, said the challenge of funding is responsible for non-completion of strategic roads infrastructure across the country in the last four years of the Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government. He also noted that paucity of funds frustrated the ministry from actualising all its set goals in terms of fully implementing its infrastructural projects in works, power and housing sectors in the just elapsed political dispensation. According to him, limited budget allocation for execution of critical infrastructure has resulted in government borrowing from multilateral corporations to fund the budget. To tackle the problem of funding in infrastructural development, Fashola suggested the need to explore other means of funding such as setting up of an Infrastructure Bond to the tune of N10 trillion, which Nigerians could subscribe to as shareholders for critical infrastructure in the country. Fashola said the major problem that faced his ministry was the fact that Nigeria’s budgets were usually not cash-backed, and so projects captured in the nation’s budgets in the last four years did not receive adequate funding. Conseauently, he stressed the need to cash-back the budget to fund critical projects, particularly, major infrastructures that will facilitate rapid national development. He noted that no ministry in the last four years received all the resources in its budget, pointing out that Nigeria is not yet a rich country as many Nigerians had always erroneously overrated her to be. He urged the Senate to collaborate with the executive arm of government to fashion out solutions to the funding problems facing the country’s economy, so that Nigerians would have the full dividends of democracy delivered to them. Fashola also observed that infrastructural deficit is a global phenomenon and not peculiar to Nigeria, urging that the country should do what other countries of the world, such as America and Europe, did to make funds available to finance infrastructural projects. The former governor of Lagos State, however, said that in spite of the huge challenge of funding, he and his team was able to leave the power, works and housing sectors better than they met it in 2015. According to him, their impressive performance in the midst of all odds, resulted in the construction of some critical road infrastructure and other projects in housing and power. He said the ministry had secured the release of 720 stranded containers containing transmission equipment in the last dispensation, assuring that there would be need for improvement if given the second chance. He said the equipment has been utilised to improve transmission lines across the country, noting that the ministry made significant efforts on off-grid electricity within the period of his stewardship. He listed the off-grid electricity executed by the government to include the electrification of Araria and Sura markets. He also said a clear road map has been established for the electrification of other 350 markets and 37 federal universities using off-grid electricity. The nominee also stated that the state governments were empowered by the constitution to generate, transmit and distribute power in the country. He said that there was the need for all stakeholders to support the regulators in the ministries to fully enforce the provision of the law in the discharge of their duties. On road projects, Fashola said the ministry under his leadership, carried out huge works in construction and rehabilitation of roads in the 36 sates of the federation. He also revealed that construction of affordable housing projects were ongoing in 34 states, noting that some of the houses have been completed. According to him, the ministry had to make do with the about 50 per cent releases to it, explaining that the funding challenge was evidenced in the budget deficit incurred annually. He recalled his earlier suggestion to the Senate for a funding innovation outside limited budgetary allocation like the Sukuk, which provided N100 billion to fund road projects across the six geopolitical zones in 2018. According to Fashola, a possible funding opportunity for critical infrastructure in Nigeria can be accessed from the Sukuk or a slight variation of its kind of funding opportunity. His words: “I think there is some opportunity and I made this presentation during the 2019 budget presentation that one of the ways I think is to expand instruments like Sukuk. “Maybe it won’t be Sukuk this time, but I think Nigeria can seek to leverage from the large pool of fund with the ordinary people looking for secured investment. “And some of them are not even in the banking sector keeping their cash. And I propose that we should consider something like a N10 trillion Infrastructure Bond, backed by parliamentary support and secured by the Federal Government with a reasonable coupon issued in tranches each year, as we need to fund infrastructure.” He pointed out that solar powered projects were successfully executed in Ariaria Market and some others in Kano and Ondo among others. Fashola, who was grilled by senators on issues in power, works and housing sectors for over an hour was eventually asked to take a bow after several encomia from senators over his steering performance as minster. Meanwhile, Senator Oluremu Tunubu, in her submission, urged the Fashola to ensure the allocation of employment slots to senators for their constituents, when he eventually becomes minister. President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, in his submission, said that there was the urgent need to evolve a comprehensive approach to raise fund for critical infrastructure in the country.