The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has threatened to shut down the Karu Abattoir over allegations of drug peddling, unwholesome meat handling and other crimes.
A recent media report had alleged that criminals have taken over the abattoir, operating in different dimensions and causing both insecurity and health risks.
The FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr. Christian Ohaa, who paid an unscheduled visit to the Abattoir alongside other top officials of the Administration, said that the abattoir may be shut if the alleged crimes were allowed to fester.
He warned members of the Cattle Sellers Association, and Butchers in the area to shun crimes and do their businesses within the ambit of the law, otherwise actions that may impede their activities would be taken.
Ohaa urged leaders of the Associations to fish out suspected criminals among them and hand them over to security agencies for proper actions.
He also charged them to collaborate with all relevant government agencies in gathering intelligence reports that would help in sanitizing the area.
“We are here because of the report we got that criminals have taken over this place, selling drugs and engaging in other crimes. If these evils continue, we will have to close this abattoir.
“We want the leaders in this abattoir to sanitize this place and ensure that everyone here is doing his business according to the law, without disturbing other people’s peace. We will not hesitate to take actions according to the law, if anyone is found committing crimes”, Ohaa said.
Meanwhile, one of the leaders of the abattoir, Magaji Kala, has indicted the military officers attached to a check point close to the area, saying they were aiding and abetting crimes by giving protection to drug peddlers.
Kala also alleged that the vigilante group in the abattoir had arrested drug peddlers several times, seizing their dangerous drugs, but were later released after members of the vigilante were threatened by the soldiers.
He also said that the suspected criminals were not resident in the abattoir but come from the neighbouring villages.
“Our problem here is the soldiers at that checkpoint. When we catch the boys who sell drugs here, the soldiers will come and release them. We have also heard that they give the soldiers bribe in kind and also money.
“We have even arrested and seized the drugs they sell but the soldiers asked us to return their drugs to them. Those suspected criminals are not living in this abattoir, but from the neighbouring villages”, Kala said.