Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State yesterday threatened to take over Ago-Alaye, a community in Odigbo Local Government Area, over persistent violent clashes. The governor had on Wednesday ordered a 24-hour curfew on Ago-Alaye town as part of the measures to prevent the escalation of the violence. Akeredolu, who visited the palace of the Ajobu of Araromi-Obu, assured the monarch of maximum security of lives and property. The governor, who was in the town to access the level of destruction, was with the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Undie Adie, the Brigade Commander of the 32 Artillery Brigade, Brigadier General Zakari Logun Abubakar and other security chiefs. Akeredolu was conducted round the Ago-Alaye community where he accessed, first hand, the destruction and burning of houses. He said government was ready to take action on Ago-Alaye community if the violence persisted. The governor, who said security forces were on ground to maintain peace and order, commended the Ajobu of Araromi-Obu, Oba Aderemi Adelola, for maintaining peace in the community, particularly by appealing to the people against a reprisal. He said: “When we heard about the disturbance at Ago-Alaye, we made our decision to make sure that total curfew imposed on Ago-Alaye is in place. Luckily for them, they have deserted the place. “I have heard that you called your subjects that there should not be any reprisal. You have maintained peace within Araromi community. We thank you for that. We will not allow miscreants to disturb the peace in this community.” Akeredolu, who later addressed the youth in the town, vowed that the perpetrators of the criminal acts would be brought to book. He said government would not fold its arms and allow criminals perpetrate crimes by unleashing terror on a whole town. The governor urged the youth to cooperate with the security agents on ground and also help them in the course of their investigations so as to apprehend everyone involved in the unfortunate incident. The Ajobu, who thanked the governor for visiting the town, assured him that the people would continue to remain calm and cooperate with the security agents. Earlier, the governor visited the rubber plantation, the Rubber Estate Nigeria Limited, to assure the operators of adequate security of the lives and property of the company and its workers. Akeredolu, who was received by the Managing Director of the firm, Philips Carty, said the company was important to the state because of its contribution to the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). He said: “This is an unscheduled visit. When I got to Ago-Alaye, I decided to come here and see. I learnt since the unfortunate incident, the factory has shut down. “I felt we should come in and tell you that we have put enough security around and there is no reason for you to be afraid. You can go ahead and do your business. This factory is important to us.” Akeredolu later visited the palace of Abodi of Ikale land, Oba George Babatunde Faduyile, where he pleaded with the traditional rulers in Ikale land to call their people in Ago-Alaye to order. The governor said government would urgently set up a committee to look into the involvement of the two sides of the conflict.