Hon. Abdulrazak Namdas represents Mayo Belwa/Ganye/Jada/Toungo Federal Constituency of Adamawa State on the platform of APC and was the spokesperson of the House of Representatives in the 8th Assembly. He is the Chairman of the House Ad Hoc Committee that investigated the crisis in Edo State House of Assembly. He speaks to PHILIP NYAM on the allegations of complicity against the committee and other issues What is your impression about the about the list of ministerial nominees released by President Muhammadu Buhari? It is  a welcome development especially with the return of some old ministers who performed well in the first term. The president, before sending this list to the Senate said he wants to work with the people he knows. I am okay with the list of ministerial nominees. At least, some of the ranking ministers who did well in the first term have been re-nominated, meaning that they will lead in driving the next level agenda. I think we should give Mr. President a chance with his choice of ministers. He know who is best fit to drive his policy thrust of improving the economy, fighting corruption and putting to an end the insecurity in the country. You chaired the Ad-Hoc Committee that investigated the Edo State House of Assembly crisis, whose recommendations, the House has adopted. But the Speaker of the State Assembly has alleged that your committee was compromised… It is true I chaired the ad-hoc investigative team that visited the Edo State House of Assembly. I have laid my report and it is now the House document. It is no longer my report. I really would not want to dwell on this matter. But the person you said alleged is an interested party and he is said to be the Speaker. But our report says there is no Speaker. So if I respond to his allegations, it will mean I am speaking against the report. To me, this is just a distraction. However, to answer you clearly, we were not sponsored by the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The Speaker also alleged that the chartered flight the committee used was paid for by the APC Chairman and they have facts to prove it… I think we should leave this matter at this level because if it were coming from a different person, I would have responded. But it is about the person that we investigated and I believe Nigerians are not interested in that now. We actually went to Benin on a flight but it was not paid for by Oshiomhole. In fact, we were warned not to enter (Edo) Benin. We had to talk to the governor who allayed our fears and asked us to come. In spite of that, we decided that we must not pass the night in Benin and therefore flew in and out of the town. Our security is paramount because we needed to be alive to talk to the people we were going to meet. I want Nigerians to appreciate that we have laid our report. But let me say that Section 91 of the 1999 Constitution as amended has provided that no state assembly should have more than 40 members. As big as Lagos and Kano are, they cannot have more than 40 members. Kano has 44 local governments, but cannot have more than 40 members. As small as Bayelsa is with eight local governments, it must produce nothing less than 24 members in the state assembly. Now, in Edo State House of Assembly, there are 24 members. So, when you have eight members out of the 24 taking the oath, it is in order because it is one third. But when you have an inauguration in the night and exclude others, and then there are decisions that must require two third of the Assembly to pass and eight is not the two third of 24. So, when an issue arises today that requires the approval of the State Assembly, where will they get the two thirds? They cannot get it. And unfortunately, the warring factions are holding tight to their positions. This is a House that is entirely peopled by APC lawmakers and it will not cost anything to do the right thing. Okay, if 60 or 70 lawmakers enter the chambers in the House of Representatives and elect a Speaker based on one third, will Nigerians say that is right? I have heard a lot of commentators complained that we direct the governor; we did not direct him, we urged the governor to reissue a proclamation. Some people have argued that a proclamation is not issued twice; but I also ask the question, did the constitution provide that it should be issued once? And Parliaments all over the world use conventions where there is no clear provision of the law. Every lawyer knows what I am talking about. If you are to issue a proclamation and the constitution did not state clearly that it should be given time, but since 1999 all proclamations carry time, you are also bound to state the time. Because of you evade the issue of time and run to the court for protection, people will not see it as being honest. So, it is not everything that the law will capture. I want Nigerians to understand that this arm of government is independent and must not be tele-guided by the executive. Both arms of government are to work together, but independently. Recently, you were honoured by a church and in this age where religious intolerance has taken the front row in the hearts of not a few Nigerians; how were you so recognised as a Muslim? Honestly speaking, I come from a background where in the environment I grew up, even in the same family we have both Christians and Muslims. I am a Muslim but I have relations who are Christians. I also have friends who cut across the religious divide. I do not discriminate based on religious leaning, but I respect people’s religious views and beliefs. Even before I joined politics, I honoured invitations from churches and now as a politician, I attend church programmes when I am invited. And we even celebrate Christmas together. So, whenever the church comes to me for assistance, I do assist and if the Muslims too come to me do same. So, the church has recognised this. So, what would be your advice to the adherents of these two religions, giving your experience? Sometimes politicians try to use religion to cause confusion. Some people may not even be religious but sometimes once you mention that this person is of a particular faith, you are likely to get blind supporters. And when there is a fight and they say one person is a member of particular religion there is the tendency that people will queue behind the person. But you will realise that most the politicians who have been talking about religion, when they eventually win elections, they forget about the religion. How many of us are truly using the religion to get close to God? I just pray that the Nigerian electorates should refuse to be used by anybody in the name of religion to cause crisis or destroy others for selfish reasons. If you are a Christian and feel that this man cannot deliver, forget about religion and go for the person that is competent. If you are a Muslim and this man that you are supporting and dying for is not good enough to represent you, look for someone that is competent and can deliver to support. Sadly, sometimes these people who use religion to divide others are not what they claim to be, because a true Christian or Muslim will not seek to kill or harm an innocent human being.  My advice to Nigerians is that religion is a good thing but that should not cause rivalry among us. Let us always look for people that will help the society grow instead of using religion as a yardstick to identify competent people. Let us be looking at people’s capacities and not the religion they practice because most of us do not even practice what our religions preach. You were in the race for Speaker until the APC zoned the position to South-West and you withdrew to support Hon. Gbajabiamila. Looking back at the last one month, would you say you made a good decision? Well, I think fairly enough, I will say I am not disappointed so far. Leadership is about perception. For now, things have not been fully put in place; for example, standing committees of the House are yet to be constituted. Even though we are just starting, the leadership is able to carry along members from the opposition parties: that joint task, which the speaker’s campaign was anchored on, has not been jettisoned. It is our prayer that the leadership should continue in this manner so that we can jointly protect the independence of the legislature. The leadership of PDP, the main opposition party has criticised the manner Speaker Gbajabiamila handled the issue of minority leadership in the House. The grouse of the party is that the Speaker recognised the list submitted by the minority caucus and disregarded the one from its National Chairman. You see the issue is that PDP being an opposition party will always attempt to discredit the leadership of the House. But I want to say that we are parliamentarians and the House rules are clear on the election of leaders whether minority or majority. We agree that the party can guide the various caucuses in the House, but it is the members of the caucus that are expected to elect their leaders and not the party. As a member of the 9th House, I have seen a copy of the letter written and signed by the majority of members of the minority caucus in the House electing Hon. Ndudi Elumelu and other leaders. So, the party (PDP) has to respect the House rules and the decision of the members of the minority parties. Elumelu is of the PDP and not the APC and he is going to protect the interest of the PDP and not the interest of APC. So, there is no point fighting over this matter. Let me give you an example, when we were to elect our own Majority Leader, there was serious concern because it was zoned to the North-West, specifically Kano. And you know that we have very respected and ranking APC members from Kano. So, whoever you choose from Kano can function very well as the Majority Leader. But we had two highly qualified members; the current leader, Hon. Garba Alhassan Ado Doguwa and Comrade Aminu Suleiman contesting neck to neck for the position. It was a fierce contest, and we were going to cast our votes and some even cast their votes. It was we members of the caucus that voted and not the APC that imposed our leaders on us. We resolved the tense situation among ourselves. The APC promised Nigerians “Next Level” after its first term of “change”. But it took a while for President Buhari to submit the names of his ministers to the Senate. Won’t this delay affect the implementation of the “Next Level” agenda? I believe we will deliver. As we speak today, there are permanent secretaries in place who are functioning very well. And don’t forget that this is a president that is ranking. He has studied the first four years and he wants to improve on that. Nobody would want to fail.  So, he is taking his time and like the Senate President assured, the list will soon be out. I know we Nigerians are used to the belief that if you are sworn in on Monday, you should submit ministerial list on Tuesday. That is quite nice. But every leader has his own style on how he wants to administer the nation. Remember that this is a president that is very experienced; he was there as a military Head of State and he is coming back for a second term as a civilian president. Many Nigerians are also apprehensive that nothing much is heard about the implementation of the 2019 budget, while we are already in the second half of the year. Is this good for our economy? Let us appreciate the fact that in the 8tth Assembly, the budget was passed very late. And this administration is saying we will do our best to return to the January to December budget circle. The 2019 budget was passed around April, May and we are not yet in August. But there are releases for critical projects, which we are expecting. But we have resolved that if the president comes up with the budget proposal early, we will pass the budget before end of December. Insecurity is ravaging the nation and former President Olusegun Obasanjo recently addressed a letter to President Buhari proffering solutions on how to tackle the unfortunate development. What’s your perspective on the letter? For me, I believe that we need to do something more drastic about the insecurity because every day you wake up, it is either bandits killing people, herdsmen attacks, kidnappers, armed robbers and so on. It is my wish that the president would rid the nation of these problems. But I will appeal to Nigerians not to be stereotype and tag some ethnic groups as evil. In every ethnic group, there are good and bad people, so when we label an entire ethnic group as criminals or terrorists because a few people are involved in these criminalities, we will not be doing well to our image as a people. So, a high ranking statesman like the former president should avoid making such provocative statements. It is true that we have a crisis of insecurity on our hands that require the attention of all stakeholders, but we must avoid labeling. If the Tiv and Jukun are fighting, we should not conclude that the Tivs are always notorious or the Jukuns are always riotous, because there are very good Jukun and Tiv people. Let us single out the criminal elements and leave out where they come from. We, in the parliament should also see how we can assist the executive in tackling this problem. It is even embarrassing for the elected officials to be going about in bullet proof cars for fear of being attacked, when the electorate have no cover. Some elected officials operate from hotel rooms because of the insecurity. All these are embarrassing. So, all of us especially the politicians; let us support the president in order to end this insecurity. As divisive as we have become, when it comes to sports, especially football, we seem to be united. What’s your impression of the just concluded African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Egypt? I think this is one area Nigeria needs to explore and harness. When Ahmed Musa used to score, nobody cared to know whether he is northerner or southerner. Now that Odion Ighalo is scoring, nobody is asking where he is from. We should as leaders ask ourselves these questions. We, therefore, need to copy from Nigerians and make this country great. But let me tell you, as far as we do not refrain from ethnic and religious sentiments, we have a long way to go. Even from the same village where people speak the same language, we still have these unhealthy divisions. Unfortunately, this is growing by the day. You see people come out in the public and claim to be speaking against these ills but behind the scene, they do different things entirely. But in football, the target is to score and win for Nigeria, nobody cares to know whether that foot that scored is an Ibo foot or a Tiv foot or a Hausa foot.