The Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) recently held its stakeholders’ engagement forum aimed at improving the acceptability of the country’s agric produce in the global market in a bid to forestall more rejections during exports. Taiwo Hassan reports   Arecent survey by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) showed that various levels of contamination of foods at the point of consumption in some parts of the country were very high. Indeed, the reports also revealed that large bulk of agricultural produce in the country are far below international standard, which in turn has led to ban on some of the country’s agricultural produce such as beans from entering into global market. Following this damning report, the Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Service and Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) have been fine-tuning ways to ensure that the country’s manufactured goods meet international standard by engaging agric exporters in different fora on zero tolerance sensitization on products’ rejection. Notwithstanding, the re-positioning of the country’s non-oil export sector has been a focal point in the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari in ensuring that the country generate enough foreign exchange earnings into the national treasury via produce exports. However, to achieve this export value chain, the Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Service believes that measures limiting the acceptability of the country’s agricultural products in the global market must be addressed holistically. Acceptability of agric produce At the NAQS’ stakeholders’ engagement forum recently held in Abuja, themed: ‘Increasing the access of Nigerian agricultural products to the global export market,’ the state of the country’s export market was at the front burners, as participants and discussants charted new ways that would promote the acceptability of Nigeria’s agricultural products in the global market. Particularly, the platform was set up for the agency to meet with stakeholders and farmers in an effort to address the key issues limiting the acceptability of Nigeria’s agricultural products in the global market. Speaking at the event, Director General, NAQS, Dr. Vincent Isegbe, explained that the forum was established to create awareness to those who may not be familiar with the agency. He noted that the aim of the forum was to promote and regulate sanitary and phytosanitary measures regarding the import and export of agricultural produce, with a view to minimizing the risk associated with the agricultural economy, food safety and the environment. According to Dr. Isegbe, a large bulk of Nigeria’s agricultural produce are far below international standard, which in turn has led to bans on some of the country’s agricultural produce such as beans from entering into global market. He cited self-regulation as key strategy to improving the acceptability of Nigerian agricultural produce in the global market. He noted that in developed countries, there is little or no farm supervision and farmers do their businesses using appropriate seeds, methods, chemicals, processing and storage. Export market Dr. Isegbe challenged all the individual commodity associations in the agricultural export business in Nigeria to “Help the country and help your own business”. The DG commended the Federal Government on their effort to give ease to the processes involved in the export of agricultural commodities, adding that they should do more to consolidate the synergy between their agency and other partnering agency involved in export proceedings. On its part, NAQS is responsible for facilitating trade in agricultural commodities and ensuring that these agricultural commodities intended for export, satisfy relevant international standards as outlined by the International Plant Production Convention (IPPC), the World Organisation for Animal Health, World Trade Organisation Convention on International Trade In Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), regarding sanitary and phytosanitary conditions of importing countries. Rejections Reacting to the reports that there are lots of Nigeria’s agricultural commodities being rejected by the European Union (EU) at the point of entry, Dr. Isegbe said that it is only bean product that is facing suspension while others were due to improper documentations. He said that there have been erroneous reports that Nigeria has about 16, 32 and 46 agro commodities that are currently being rejected by the European Union (EU) over standardization requirement issues in the media. According to him, it is better to set the record straight that Nigerian commodities are doing well internationally and it is only bean that is suspended by EU among the country’s agro commodity exports and the agency is doing its possible best to ensure that the suspension is lifted on beans. He said that his agency is responsible for issuing clearance for agro exports and imports in the country, saying that it is not folding its hands in the area of export control measures in entrenching proper standardization of agro commodities. Non-oil sector export revenue Statistics from various key government agencies such as the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and others, have shown that the non-oil sector has been the driving force of Nigeria’s economy in recent times and particularly, agriculture is one of the segments that has seen a huge turnaround in the economy. Indeed, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Segun Awolowo, had disclosed that Nigeria, within the next 10 to 15 years, could earn about $150 billion from non-oil revenue sources. Awolowo, who stated this in Abuja after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari recently, said the successful implementation of a zero oil plan will increase significantly foreign exchange earnings for the country. The NEPC boss who admitted that global oil prices were on the rise because of Iran, said there was still problem for countries such as Nigeria who depend completely on the sector for revenues. “What we hope to achieve is to raise more revenue for Nigeria from other sources,” he said. “You know 90 per cent of our revenue is from oil and we cannot survive. But we should not rest on our oars because, those days of $140 per barrel is gone forever. So we have to look inwards and produce more. “The zero oil plan is about raising production and productivity. We identified 22 sectors where we can earn foreign exchange apart from oil. We are hoping that in the next 10-15 years we will be able to raise $150 billion from sources outside oil,” Awolowo noted. ‘Next Level’ Meanwhile, the NEPC boss restated his commitment to take the Nigerian export to the next level, stressing that the council is introducing different initiatives to ensure that the sector contributes its quota to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He said plans are underway to review Nigeria’s export regulations to drive her non-oil export, pointing out that the move was to ensure export regulations in Nigeria are simple, clear, and more importantly not unreasonably costly to exporters. “Regarding Nigeria’s export regulations, we are in the process of a comprehensive review of the steps, costs and efficacy of implementation,” he said. He stated that Nigeria has come a long way, but still has some work to do, pointing out that exporters are to manage regulations on two levels – starting with export regulations in Nigeria and ending with import regulations in target markets of its products. Last line With the NAQS stakeholders’ engagement forum, all eyes will be on the agency and NEPC to finally tackle head-long the issue of agric produce rejections at the international market and change the perception of the country’s present status at the global level.