Emir of Kano, His Royal Highness, Mohammadu Sanusi II, recently raised the alarm on the fuel subsidy programme and its implications on the Nigerian economy. The warning was sequel to a revelation that the controversial subsidy gulped a whopping N1.5 trillion in 2018. When the statistics is broken down further, it shows that the Federal Government, through the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), is spending an average of N1.5 billion per day on fuel subsidy.  Sanusi, a former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), postulated that going by this trend, the subsidy scheme was gulping almost all the earnings accruing to Nigeria from crude oil, our main foreign exchange earner. The country, Sanusi said, was on its way to bankruptcy and would indeed go bankrupt, all things being equal. The banker and economist, who was addressing the 3rd National Treasury Workshop organised by the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, said that the subsidy regime was unsustainable and advised the Federal Government to explore ways of phasing it out. The monarch described the subsidy policy as fraudulent and warned that sooner than later, the Federal Government would have no fund left to take care of its basic obligations in Education, Health and Infrastructure if it continued with the policy. It is instructive to recall that a similar opinion had been canvassed by the World Bank and other Brent Wood financial institutions in the past but these counsels fell on deaf ears.  We strongly agree with the views espoused by Sanusi on this matter. First it is very curious that Nigeria is still saddled with the highly discredited fuel subsidy long after the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration announced that it had cancelled it. We recall that in May 2016, the Federal Government told Nigerians it had done away with fuel subsidy and consequently announced a rise in the pump price of petrol from N87 to N145 per litre. At that time, it claimed that the new price regime would lead to improved supply of petroleum products and competition and eventually drive down the pump price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), lead to increased product availability, encourage investments in refineries and create a stable environment for the downstream sector in Nigeria. Several months later, the much touted removal of subsidy failed to survive in the midst of the stark economic realities. The crash in the value of the Naira against the Dollar meant that the average importer was required to pay more for the cargoes as the landing cost of fuel rose sharply. Soon, the NNPC became the sole importer of petrol as the rising cost of fuel importation without a commensurate profit made it impossible for the independent marketers to remain in the business. Perhaps as a face-saving measure, the NNPC re-introduced the subsidy scheme through the back door under a strange terminology called “under-recoveries.” This allowed the Federal Government to continue paying subsidy without due appropriation by the National Assembly. In fact, under the new system, the NNPC appropriated to itself the sole rights to import fuel at whatever rate and paid itself whatever it deemed fit as subsidy. Under the watch of this government, fuel subsidy transactions have become shrouded in so much secrecy that describing the system as opaque would be an understatement. In all these, the Federal Government has continued to carry on as if all is well and never bothered to explain to Nigerians what it has been doing with our commonwealth. We urge President Muhammadu Buhari and his team to tackle this challenge by addressing its root causes. Nigeria, an oil producing country, is unable to refine its crude oil locally because none of its four refineries are functional. The refineries will not work until the Federal Government reviews its policies towards the running and maintenance of these facilities. It is a tragedy that while refineries built in other countries at the same time as the ones here have remained functional, ours have gone moribund. This is a self-inflicted wound because while other countries have ensured regular maintenance of their refineries in collaboration with the builders of those refineries, what was supposed to be our regular Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) every two years has become a contract scam. More importantly, we believe that there is an urgent need to revisit the principal legislations governing the downstream sector of the petroleum industry. The Federal Government should prioritise the deregulation of the petroleum industry by spearheading the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) which has been trapped between the Presidency and National Assembly for more than a decade. We must understand that while we are still dilly dallying over deregulation and other reforms in our petroleum industry, other countries who are even less endowed in oil and gas have embraced the necessary reforms and are currently attracting huge investments to their shores. We believe that our refineries could return to functionality, new refineries built, fuel importation reduced to its barest minimum and fuel subsidy eliminated, if our government could put on its thinking cap, roll up its sleeves and adopt the workable models used in other oil producing countries. Nigeria cannot continue holding on to archaic and outmoded policies and legislations and expect to exit the resource guzzling and corrupt ridden cycle of fuel importation and subsidy. In this race, we cannot continue jogging on one spot and expect the whole world to be waiting for us. 