A former House of Reps member, Chief Linus Abaa Okorie, yesterday urged the federal government to rescind its decision to establish RUGA Settlements across the country. The federal government through the Ministry of Agriculture recently announced its decision to establish RUGA settlements across the country to end herders/ farmers clashes across the country. But  Okorie who was immediate past Chairman House  Committee on Agricultural Colleges and Institutions said the scheme if implemented would escalate farmers/herders conflict rather than addressing the challenge. He recommended the repackaging of ranching model as against RUGA. He noted that ranching was the best solution to the herders and farmers clashes across the country. Okorie who represented Ohaozara/Onicha/Ivo federal Constituency of Ebonyi State between 2011-2019 said what the federal government should do is to effect a comprehensive reform of the nomadic culture and its economics. He noted that there were many successful ranching models to copy from and called on the government to package an appropriate ranching stimulus and economics to drive the goldmine. He advised South East Governors not to allow the implementation of the scheme in the zone if the federal government fails to drop the scheme. Okorie said opposition to the scheme was not about politics nor criticism of President Muhammadu Buhari administration but about nationality stability and security. ‘I support the comprehensive reform of the nomadic culture and economics, including any stimulus to accelerate their trade. But RUGA is no way an acceptable option. It’s a crisis waiting to explode. “Cattle ranching remains the solution and there are many successful models to ape from. The FG should package an appropriate ranching stimulus and economics to drive that dormant goldmine. But it’s a NO NO to RUGA. And this has nothing to do with politics and PMB. It’s about economics, it’s about national stability and security. It is about not creating more problems trying to solve one. “Any State governor, especially in the South that yields land for RUGA may never recover from its negative effects even after office and this is not rocket science. “Above all, a forceful implementation of the RUGA policy would certainly propel a spiral to national crisis and instability. “Political, natural, religious and opinion leaders owe the nation the urgent duty to speak up on this matter and to offer ameliorative advice to Mr President at this time and help him find a reason to abandon the policy in the national interest. “Let’s please rethink it, no one would lose any face. Let’s implement ranching instead with appropriate incentives to address inherent fears
and capacity gaps of the herders and would-be investors”, he said.