Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has hit the ground running in order to boost chances of achieving his second term agenda. However, the absence of a cabinet almost five months after President Muhammadu Buhari was re-elected for second term, could undermine the CBN Governor’s plans. TONY CHUKWUNYEM writes   Contrary to speculation in some quarters last month that President Muhammadu Buhari had submitted the  list of his ministerial nominees to the Senate, the President, during a dinner he had with the leadership of the National Assembly a fortnight ago, disclosed that he was yet to send such a list to the lawmakers.   News agencies reported that Buhari, who said he had been under tremendous pressure to announce his cabinet, insisted that he would not be stampeded into releasing the list.   Search for nominees   According to the reports, the president stated that unlike the situation during his first term in office in 2015, when the majority of ministerial appointees were not known to him personally, he had decided that this time round he would only appoint persons that he knew personally.   He was quoted to have said :  “Many at this dinner meeting are saying they want to see the list of the proposed cabinet so that they can go on leave peacefully.  I’m very much aware about it; I’m under tremendous pressure on it. But the last cabinet, which I headed, most of them, the majority of them I didn’t know them. I had to accept the names and recommendations from the party and other individuals.   “I worked with them for three and half years at least – meeting twice or two weeks in a month. So, I know them. But, this time around, I’m going to be quite me – me in the sense that I will pick people I personally know,” he added.   Given that analysts have generally attributed the president’s below-par handling of the economy during his first term in office to the fact that he did not appoint ministers until four months after his inauguration on May 29, 2015, the consensus in financial circles was that Mr. president should have had his cabinet in place by now.  Emefiele’s five-year agenda   Although the president has been widely praised by financial experts for reappointing the CBN Governor, Mr. Gowin Emefiele, to a second and final five-year term in office (the first time a CBN Governor would be so reappointed since 1999), analysts have warned that Buhari’s  delay in constituting a cabinet could make it difficult for the CBN governor to achieve the bold five- year agenda, which he unveiled shortly after commencing his second term.   In fact, the CBN Governor, had  while unveiling  his 5-Year Agenda  for a his second  term at world press conference on June 24, emphasised  that   he would work with the fiscal authority to pursue a double digit growth rate within the next five years.   Among other things, he said CBN would strive to sustain positive interest rate regime  as well as bring down the rate of inflation to single digit.   He said CBN will also guarantee exchange rate stability, adding that the apex bank would continue with a  managed floating exchange rate regime and  support measures to diversify the country’s export base. He also said CBN will seek to broaden financial inclusion by ensuring that at least 95 per cent of all eligible adults have access to financial services by 2024.   In addition, he said CBN will work with deposit boney banks (DMBs) to improve  access to credit for  small and medium enterprises (SMEs), farmers and young  entrepreneurs, adding that the banking watchdog  will also direct its intervention to education and mortgage.   However, arguably the highlight of the agenda was Emefiele’s announcement that CBN planned to embark on a fresh recapitilisation of the banking industry.   The recapitalisation of the banking sector, which was done in 2004/2005, required DMBs to raise their capital base from N2billion to N25billion.   Noting that the drop in the value of the naira to the dollar had weakened the capital of banks, the CBN Governor pointed out that in 2004 when the banks were last asked to recapitalise, the value of a dollar to the naira was about N100.   This, he explained, meant that the N25 billion capital base of banks, when translated into the dollar, was about $250 million. According to the apex bank’s governor, due to the drop in the value of naira, which now exchanges for N360 to a dollar, the translated value of N25billion today is about $75million.   He argued that going by the huge developmental role CBN would want DMBs to play in the next five years, it had become imperative to demand their recapitalisation.   Analysts’ fears   However, in its half-year outlook 2019 report released last week, United Capital Research, warned that the CBN Governor might face challenges in achieving his agenda if the fiscal authorities do not effectively play their role.   For instance, commenting on the impact the nation’s weak macroeconomic framework will have on the apex bank’s capacity to grow the economy,  the firm stated: “In the last 4/5 years, IMF and other stakeholders have insisted that the macroeconomic framework in Nigeria is too weak to spur the required growth. Majorly, this is captured in the multiple exchange rates regime, distortionary quasi-fiscal activities, inadequate fiscal consolidation efforts, and the reluctance to overhaul the 2-fold subsidy program in the currency and energy markets, despite low revenue mobilization. This concern is also reflected in the policy agenda of Governor Emefiele for the next five years.   “According to the governor, the overarching objective of his administration is to achieve a double-digit GDP growth, single digit inflation rate, lower unemployment rate and a stable exchange rate.  While the target of the CBN is laudable, the Apex Bank lacks the capacity to drive this objective alone. For instance, to achieve a double-digit GDP growth, key economic agencies of the government such as the ministry of finance, trade & investment, oil & gas, agriculture, and national planning, must be drafted in.   “Put differently, lack of coordination among economic policy-making organs of government as well as economic leaning of the authorities, which is ‘increasingly statist’ points to the continuation of the subsisting policy framework,” the firm stated.   Similarly, the firm cited President Buhari’s delay in constituting a cabinet as another factor that would determine Nigeria’s short-term growth outlook.   It said: “Policy uncertainties will remain one of the biggest concerns for investors in H2b ‘19. This position is buttressed by several factors. For instance, President Buhari is unlikely to form his cabinet until the end of Q3 ‘19, if the experience from 2015 is anything to go by. This is because nomination must come from the 36 States in the name of the “Federal Character” clause, then go through Presidential consideration before a final screening by the Senate. This is likely to slow investment planning as important decision in the strategic sectors of the economy as well as policy formulation across the sectors have to wait for the ministers to settle in.”   Indeed, the firm stated: “In their 2nd term the president and the CBN governor must battle structural and policy challenges, which have kept output growth at a sub-optimal level. More specifically, to drive high single or double-digit GDP growth and check double-digit inflation rate, economic policies must address poor revenue mobilization, rising debt profile, petrol price subsidy, low foreign direct investment, the inefficiency of the  Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), booming population & job creation, power sector crisis & port congestion, as well as corruption & insecurity.  If the current policy framework is sustained, the outlook for the economy over the next 4 years will be muted. “  In a recent report, Reuters stated that the failure of President Buhari to appoint a cabinet four months after winning a second term has: “stymied the country’s stock market, prompted foreign investors to trim holdings and threatened growth prospects for Africa’s largest economy.”   According to the news agency, government activities, which almost ground to a halt ahead of the presidential elections in February, slowed further after Buhari’s victory.   It noted that some investors said they had hoped that as the incumbent, Buhari would move more quickly, citing Senegal’s Macky Sall and South Africa’s Cyril Ramaphosa, who both appointed ministers within days of being sworn in as presidents this year.   The news agency also pointed out that since the dissolution of Buhari’s first cabinet in late May, senior civil servants, who oversee day-to-day operations but lack authority to approve major decisions, have run Nigeria’s government departments. This means that contractors are not getting paid given that civil servants do not approve the capital expenditure.   Interestingly, Emefiele had been widely reported on May 23, six days before Buhari was sworn in for a second term in office, as saying that  he was optimistic that the President would  appoint new Ministers on time to help monetary policies thrive. Mr. Emefiele, who was responding to a question on whether he could advise President Buhari to reconstitute his cabinet on time to ensure that fiscal policies aid monetary policy for the country’s development,  was reported as saying  that  appointing Ministers was a difficult task, but he was optimistic that the president would do what Nigerians have asked for.   Analysts point out that, in line with its annual calendar, the National Assembly is scheduled  to go on its annual recess on July 26 and resume on September 26. Although there are indications that the lawmakers could be recalled to screen ministerial nominees, the consensus in industry circles is that the already serious damage to the economy would get worse if the National Assembly does not get the list this week.  Last line   However, with  power reportedly concentrated in the hands of  President Buhari and a close circle of confidants, including Chief of Staff Abba Kyari,  some observers question how much difference new ministers will make in the President’s second term. In fact, analysts expect CBN to continue to drive economic growth, as it did in the last four years with little assistance from the fiscal authorities. 