 TRACTABILITY
The scheme is expected to be more flexible in transaction for the contributors   Almost four months after the Federal Government launched the micro-pension scheme, unfolding developments reveal that meeting the 12 million worker-target might not be possible by the end of the year, New Telegraph has learnt. The situation, according to investigation, follows the slow pace at which the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) are going about the scheme, which is expected to take care of workers in the informal sector. Findings by this newspaper showed that although the industry regulator, National Pension Commission (PenCom), had prepared the ground by issuing the necessary guideline for the scheme’s take off, the PFAs have failed to show the same enthusiasm it put up in the case of the formal sector employees. During the launch of the scheme in March by President Muhammadu Buhari, PenCom declared that its target was to get about 20 million Nigerians into the pension net from the current eight million contributors already in formal employment. The micro-pension plan is to capture the 71 per cent self-employed Nigerians, who are currently not into the pension net as regulated by PenCom. While conceiving the micro-pension idea, PenCom proposed that it would boost pension contributors to 20 million from the current eight million contributors by the end of 2019 and 30 million by the year 2024. The scheme, according to PenCom, is expected to capture self-employed people, especially those with irregular income, usually in the informal sector and largely financially uninformed with limited or no access to financial services especially pension plan. The targeted groups include hordes of artisans as well as high profile individuals such as those in entertainment and other self-employed industries.
Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act 2014 provides that employees of organisations with less than three employees as well as self-employed persons shall be entitled to participate under the CPS in accordance with guidelines issued by PenCom. The Head, Research & Corporate Strategy, PenCom, Dr. Farouk Aminu, had earlier described the scheme as a development that would enhance the growth of pension assets in the country, saying that the micro pension plan would be voluntary with a lot of flexibility in the plan to allow it to work. He said that the contributor would decide whether to be contributing daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly, adding that they will also have access to 40 per cent of his contributions, while 60 per cent would be locked in as pension, and can only be withdrawn when the contributor retires.
According to him, there will be no bottleneck in collecting the money when the retiree wants it, because PFAs will handle all approvals unlike the normal one that all approvals would come from PenCom. Speaking on the prospect of the scheme for the country, the Acting Director-General, PenCom, Aisha Dahir-Umar, described it as remarkable as it will democratise savings culture in Nigeria in a systematic and efficient manner. According to her, the product also perfectly aligns with the current social empowerment programmes of the Federal Government as it seeks to ensure, in the long term, the sustainability of the benefits of the empowerment programmes for the participants, who may seize this opportunity to save for their old age.  “This is the first time such window of opportunity is being opened to self-employed Nigerians and those working in the informal sector, to participate and enjoy the benefits inherent in the Contributory Pension Scheme,” she said. “As you might have observed, the CPS has been very impactful in Nigeria since the commencement of its implementation in 2004. The formation of long term domestic capital, represented by the over N8.74 trillion worth of pension assets as at January 2019, belonging to 8.46 million formal sector participants, is slowly but surely changing Nigeria’s financial landscape. This, by extension, is also transforming the course and pace of our socio-economic development. “For instance, N6.51 trillion, representing 73 per cent of the total pension assets is invested in Federal Government Securities issued to finance various activities of Government. Thus, in the area of infrastructure alone, the pension funds invested about N95.31 billion in the N200 billion Sukuk issued by the Federal Government. Similarly, out of the N10.67 billion Green Bond issued by the Federal Government, pension funds invested N7.19 billion. “Consequently, we believe that the enlistment of the informal sector into the pension savings net would boost the quantum of available long term investible funds that would galvanize national development efforts,” she added.