After three years of lull, breeze of activities breathed into premises of Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) following the inauguration by President Muhammadu Buhari of revenue commission board under Engr. Ellias Mban and 36 states commissioners. The task before Mbam in his second coming is daunting, as it was four years ago reports Abdulwahab Isa  The last three years preceding last week when a board was inaugurated for it, key statutory activities flattened at RMAFC due to prolonged absence of a constituted board.
The Executive Chairman, Elias Mbam and sizeable number of appointed state’s representative as commissioners (36 in all, including FCT) had served out their first term tenure. There wasn’t prompt replacement for them. For nearly three years, the Commission functioned with less than 10 commissioners superintended by an Acting Chairman, Shettima Abba-Gana .
President Muhammadu Buhari, last week, graciously returned former Executive Chairman, Mbam, for a second term along with a fresh set of 36 commissioners . Mbam is back to conversant turf; having occupied the same position four years ago. By his re- appointment Mbam is divinely returned to complete crucial assignments that were left hanging mid way when he was away. They are intact as he left them. The less than 10 commissioners and acting chairman that superintended the affairs of the Commission couldn’t make any headway, as their small number couldn’t form a quorum required for decisions to be taken on key issues.
Inaugurating Mbam and his 30 lieutenants board members last week in Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari instructively advised Revenue Commission boss and his team to discharge their duties fervently and objectively.
An important agency key to economic development in a federating component such as Nigeria, the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission , RMAFC has as its functions, amongst others: the monitoring of accruals to and disbursement of revenue from the Federal Account to three tires and reviewing, from time to time, the revenue allocation formulae to ensure conformity with changing realities; and fixing remunerations for politically elected office holders. These are not inconsequential task. Buhari’s term of reference
The long lull at RMAFC ended last week with President Muhammadu Buhari swearing-in the chairman and 29 commissioners of RMAFC at the State House (others have not served out their terms). The president pointedly told Mbam and other Commissioners to be fair and just to the three tiers and three arms of government at all times.
He also urged the Commission not to compromise its constitutional mandate for whatever reasons.
“The mandate of the Commission is very wide and has an important role for our country’s economy,” he said. “The Commission must be fair and just to the three tiers and arms of government without compromising its core mandate. ”
The president also directed the commission to work hard towards meeting government’s target of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty.
Buhari said the chairman and members of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission were chosen based on their integrity and proven track records thus, much is expected from them.
“Your appointment as Chairman and members of the Commission was carefully considered based on your proven track records of hard work and integrity,” he said. “It is, therefore, the expectation of government that you will rapidly and systematically set to work to address all areas of your mandate in a businesslike manner”.
In addition, President Buhari charged the Chairman and honourable Commissioners to concentrate more on expanding the sources of revenue to the Federation Account and other non-oil sources including solid minerals, use all legal ways and means to strengthen its monitoring mechanism and block leakages of revenue from the Federation Account . He said that, all relevant laws and regulations on revenue collection and remittances should be fully complied with and appropriate sanctions visited on defaulters. Task before Mban
The re- appointed RMAFC Chairman embarked on several tasks during his first tenure, which he couldn’t get completed within space of his tenure. They remain where he abandoned them. Crucial of such assignments waiting for Mbam attention is, a new revenue formula. The Commission had advanced on this very important assignment five years ago. The eight National Assembly had worked extensively on it. Regrettably, it never got endorsed by the executive. The states have been craving for a reviewed revenue formula. This is one knotty item Mbam must address this time around.
Also, crucial to be addressed by Mban and his team is review of remuneration of political office holders. Most Nigerians are of the view that, Nigeria’s brand of democracy is heavily burdened with huge cost incurred in servicing political office holders. The agitation to slash the pay of National Assembly elected members, political appointees is still being vehemently championed today as it was five years ago when Mban was on saddle of revenue commission. He will have to act this time. Equally to demand his attention, is finding ways around boosting the revenue of states and by extension the Local government councils. Mbammust not only help states in espousing additional revenue sources, it behooves on the Commission to enlighten them on imperative of blocking revenue leakages.
Some of the Commissioners that will help Mbam pilot affairs at the commission include, the former acting Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, Mr Kabir Mashi, former House of Representative , Abdul Kokori ( Kogi Central), Mr Rilwan Abarchi, Chris Akomas, Ayang Okon, Chima Okafor, Prof. Isa Mohammed and Patrick Mgbebu, among others. Keeping faith with mandate
Mbam said he’s not oblivious of the daunting tasks, public expectations on him and his team.
Addressing reporters last Monday during his maiden press briefing, the RMAFC boss assured Nigerians of keeping faith with the mandate.
“I’m aware of the sensitivity, security and socio- economic implications of the mandate of the commission,” he said. “I’m particularly conscious of the challenges thrown at us by Mr. President during our inauguration. Accordingly, I want to assure all stakeholders and indeed all Nigerians that we shall pursue and deliver on our mandate effectively and efficiently.
“We shall collaborate and cooperate with all the three tires of government and sister agencies of government for the realisation of our desired objectives without compromising our core mandate”, he pledge. Last line
The sacred role played by revenue commission is central. In fact, it’s at the core of government’s quest for resources diversification. This is one mandate Mbam must see to its successful execution. States and local governments must be weaned from total dependence on monthly allocation. The task before MbaM and his commissioners isn’t a tea party.