The Ijaw Youth Council has commended the Governor of Bayeksa State, Honorable Henry Seriake Dickson for creating a level playing ground for aspirants to pursue their ambitions to govern the state. IYC Secretary-General, World Wide, Mr. Alfred Kemepado, said in a statement yesterday that Dickson deserved commendation for allowing all aspirants who had ambition to procure the indication of interest and nomination form of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in pursuit of their gubernatorial ambitions. He said that what the governor had done was to create an opportunity for all the aspirants with a strong quest to govern the state to test their popularity with the delegates of the PDP during the forthcoming primaries of the party on 3rd September, 2019. According to the IYC scribe, it was in the interest of democracy and its growth that the governor resisted strong temptation to impose any candidate on the party contrary to rampant practice across states as was the case in Ekiti, Kwara, Imo, Akwa Ibom, Anambra and several other states. He stressed that the governor’s action should serve as a template for others to emulate in order to avoid unhealthy contests occasioned by bitterness and acrimony, saying that the governor’s action was a courageous display of character and fairness which should be commended by all lovers of democracy and general good. He said that the IYC was interested in the democratic process of the PDP, the opposition All Progressives Congress and other major parties because their primaries and their outcome would record serious effect on Bayelsans and indeed the Ijaw nation. However, Kemepado called on the political class to reciprocate the action of the governor by displaying the expected degree of sacrifice and modesty in the pursuit of their ambitions in the interest of the state. He said that it was important for the political class jostling for the ticket of the the various political parties to note that only one person would emerge governor of Bayelsa State and should eschew desperation and the excessive emphasis on the pursuit of self-interest. However, Kemepado said that the events in the Bayelsa PDP where all the top political office holders in the state have indicated interest in the governorship of the state was not too healthy.