The Federal Government has said that only 314 places of worship had renewed their licenses to conduct statutory marriages in the country. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Georgina Ehuriah, who made the disclosure in Abuja yesterday, warned that marriages conducted in unlicensed places of worship, remained illegal as same will not be recognised by the government. While calling on places of worship to update their data with the ministry, Ehuriah said only about 4,689 licenced places of worship had done so. “Presently, only about 4,689 licensed places of worship in Nigeria have updated their records with the Ministry of Interior of which only 314 have renewed their licenses to conduct statutory marriages. “The implication of this is that marriages conducted in unlicensed places of worship are not in line with the Marriage Act and cannot serve legal purposes when the need arises; and such unlicensed places of worship are operating contrary to Section 6(1) of the Marriage Act,” she said. Meanwhile, the permanent secretary said arrangements had been concluded to effect amendment to the existing Marriage Act, to meet the demands of the time. This was as she charged couples with defective marriage certificates to visit the ministry for validation and authentication. “Moving forward, I have already put in place machinery for the commencement of the process for the amendment of the Marriage Act to adequately meet the needs of citizens in the 21St century. “Also, arrangements are ongoing to give couples whose certificates were not issued in line with the Act the opportunity to bring them to conformity. “As we progress with the sanitization of the process, the ministry intends to appropriately advise the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the legally acceptable certificate for the guidance of foreign embassies in Nigeria and Nigerian Missions abroad,” Ehuriah said. This was as she disclosed that government was presently building a database of all marriages consummated in the country, with a view to responding to enquiries from countries and relevant organisations. Her words: “Presently, only about 4,689 licensed places of worship in Nigeria have updated their records with the Ministry of Interior of which only 314 have renewed their licenses to conduct statutory marriages. “The implication of this is that marriages conducted in unlicensed places of worship are not in line with the Marriage Act and cannot serve legal purposes when the need arises; and such unlicensed places of worship are operating contrary to Section 6(1) of the Marriage Act.” She added that: “Presently, the Ministry is building a database of all statutory marriages conducted in Nigeria. It has also developed a data base of all places of worship licensed for celebration of marriages. This has enabled the Ministry to be in a good position to respond to enquiries from various interested parties from within and outside Nigeria. “In addition, the documentation processes for licensing places of worship have been automated to facilitate submission of application for licenses by interested places of worship. “Let me, at this point, stress the need for strict compliance with the requirements as specified in the Act by applicants as applications that do not satisfy the law will not be approved. Accordingly, administrators of places of worship are encouraged to satisfy these requirements. “It is very important at this point to stress that the conduct of statutory marriages in accordance with the law is of great interest to government as it is the bedrock of families.”