Parents have been advised to be vigilant with respect to the security of their wards. In his address at their 2019 Graduation/ Prize-giving events, the proprietor of Saint Agnes Schools, Adiyan, Mr. Oluwambo Balogun, urged parents never to take anything for granted when it concerns child’s security. Mr Balogun further implored parents to maintain regular interaction with the school as this provides effective means for proper monitoring of their children. He noted that the issue of child security has continued to assume worrisome dimension across Nigeria; adding that nothing should be left to chances. “We are in perilous times!”, he declared. The proprietor disclosed that the school recorded some landmark achievements during the 2018/19 academic year. The school successfully conducted their first ever WASSCE on their premises last May/June, following approval by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC). The proprietor was full of appreciation to the parents for their encouragement and co-operation. The theme for the school’s Graduation/ Prize-giving for this year is, ‘Profiting by Talent’. Addressing the large gathering of parents and guests who attended the occasion, Mr. Balogun explained that the theme was selected to encourage children to treasure the gifts that God had deposited in them. According to him, many parents did not understand that education is only a means to an end, but not an end in itself. He said that his school’s extra-curricular activities are organized as talent workshop for discovering kids’ potential, or talents that could be nurtured for future profit. “The routes to prosperity are many; and talents are among them. It is not only doctors and lawyers that are happy in life, many musicians, actors/actresses, models, even comedians are happier doing what they know best and smiling to the banks. Unfortunately, many parents help to bury their children’s talents by imposing careers on them,” lamented the school proprietor.Earlier, the keynote speaker, Engr. Abiodun Sewabo, had addressed the graduands on some talent-based vocations from which he said many individuals had attained prominence and prosperity. He explained that the road to entrepreneurship is faster and cheaper through talent-based occupations. The Chairman of the occasion, Mr. Kunle Soyinka, advised the graduands to be focused and determined as they step out into the open world. Gold award for exemplary parenting was conferred on Mr and Mrs Emmanuel Ojedele while the day’s prizes were dedicated to Princess Iyabode Ogunyemi; they included prizes for best graduating students as well as overall best students in the various classes.