Mr. Ben Okoro is the Moderator, Ijaw Nation Forum (INF). In this interview, he speaks on the forthcoming November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State and the developmental challenges facing the Niger Delta region, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  Ijaw Nation Forum (INF) was part of the groups that recently organised a peace workshop to rob minds together on the way to ansure a credible and violence-free governorship election in Bayelsa State. What inspired the initiative?  Primarily, it was to ensure that we have a violence-free election. We want to make sure that we are able to effect a peaceful and credible election by making sure that we don’t lose a soul. We want to sensitise our people that we really need to put the past method of electing our leaders behind us. This time around, we will ensure that candidates who are disposed to violence are not given a chance.  What was the response of the political class to this initiative?  There were lots of efforts on ground here in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital and also through different networks outside Yenagoa to reach out to the politicians. I can tell you that I actually made a call to Abuja just to reach out to one of our frontline politicians to attend the programme. Those who didn’t show up must have their reasons for not attending the workshop. It could be that the notice was short. Our original objective was to reach out to the arrowheads and the aspirants until it became clear to me that technically there was no aspirant. There were a few of them who sent apologies that they won’t be able to make it.  What is the hope that the message of peace you are trying to preach will reach them? I believe that some of those who attended the event will carry the message to those who could not make it. And of course, this cannot be the end of it. From the feedback we got from some of the speakers, we still have work to do. But we will reach out to those individuals. We will communicate to them about the outcome of the workshop and other feedbacks they gave to us. It is important we do that. We are also going to take the message to the lower strata of the society. The drive for sustainable peace in the Niger Delta is still work in progress. Do you think the relative peace in the region at the moment is sustainable? I think that we are getting to a burble point in the sustainability of peace in the Niger Delta region. You can see people threatening left right and centre. I am not saying those threats will happen, but the government must address some of the challenges very quickly, so that it doesn’t explode in our face. Right now, the region is relatively peaceful. But the truth is that there are so many vices going on because of the level of hunger. Some of those vices are just like something waiting to explode. To really maintain and sustain the peace, government needs to quickly address the problem of unemployment. Idle hands can be used for anything. You know what happened in Port Harcourt with the problem of cultism. Gradually, those behaviours have filtered into the entire region. I am from Patani; the king’s mother and her sister were abducted for 27 days. It has never happened in my place like that before. If they don’t deal with unemployment, the issue of sustainability will not be there. Would you say that the Niger Delta region has fared well under the Muhammadu Buhari administration? Quite honestly, I wouldn’t say the region has fared well under this administration. They have sustained some of the programmes and I must give them credit for that. At the beginning, there was controversy as to whether or not amnesty programme would be cancelled, but they have sustained it along with some other programmes that are ongoing. But, talking seriously, I have not really seen the government tackling the serious issues in the region. Look at the Ogoni cleanup, it just started with so much rumbling. I think government is not doing enough. Would you then subscribe to the opinion of those who believe that restructuring is the only solution to the myriad of problems facing the country? Restructuring will be an answer, but it won’t solve all the problems. If it is done with fiscal federalism, it will go a long way. But there is no one single answer that will fix all the problems at once. Would you also take the President for his words to support true federalism? Based on the observation in the last four years, I will be a little doubtful. Remember, a lot of work was done on the 2014 National Conference. But what was his answer? He said he was not going to look at it. From his antecedents, I am not very hopeful. What are the issues you think the aspirants for the forthcoming November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State should put in the front burner? The politicians need to win back the trust of the people they are governing. Like one of the youths who spoke said: ‘This thing can be different if the politicians can do what they are supposed to do.’ They should go to the grassroots and town halls and meet with the people at the grassroots directly and develop some relationship with them. They should engage with them and allow them to say the things that pinch them. We must emphasize reasons why we must not lose anybody during the election. If that happens, the things we are talking about will begin to show. People have been talking about devolution of power to the local governments. Do you think there is adequate manpower at that level to improve service delivery? My honest answer is no. I support the agitation for devolution of power, but the managers of local governments need to change certain things in the way they run the administration. They need to change their thinking. This will not just come by fiat or by law. There should be a programme to actually re-orientate them. Right now, I don’t think the local governments have the manpower to manage and execute good policies. It is not because they are not good people; it is because of the system we have fostered for so long.  The states can play a very big role in re-orientating the manpower at that level of government even though they are the ones supposed to be devolving power. If they want to be successful, they must play that role. If we are not careful, we might hear some woeful tales. I support power devolution, but I don’t see the local governments the way they are set up now running their affairs without some support.