The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia state has sent a message of congratulations to former governor Orji Uzor-Kalu, Hon. Nkiru Onyejeocha and the former deputy governor, Dr. Chris Akomas on their new positions in the country. Kalu, a Senator representing Abia North Senatorial Zone emerged as Chief Whip of the 9th Senate while Onyejeocha, member representing Umunneochi/ Isuikwuato Federal Constituency became the Deputy Leader of the House of Representatives.  Meanwhile, Akomas on his on part, got inaugurated as Federal Commissioner representing Abia State in the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Com  mission (RMAFC) by President Muhammadu Buhari.  In a telephone chat with New Telegraph, APC Publicity Secretary in Abia State, Comrade Benedict Godson described the new positions of the trio as a testament of reward of hard work by the party in the state and the individuals.  Godson, however, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari, APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and the National Leadership of the party for the opportunity given to the three well-meaning Abians in the National Assembly and RMAFC  Also, he pleaded with the president to ensure that the APC would consolidate on its success in the South-East and Abia in particular by ensuring that only true party people were appointed for ministerial and other available positions. Godson, who described Kalu as a disciplined politician had the capacity and capability to unite the entire South-East with other parts of the country while lauding his new position as putting a round peg in a round hole.  He said: “He is our leader and we all are looking up to him. He is a disciplined man. Going to the Senate for the first time and getting the position of a Chief Whip is not a cheap achievement.  “We know him, we trust him and we believe he’ll deliver and use his position to bring more peace and unity to this great nation. “Just like his name means, ‘Orji the great Iroko’, obviously the Iroko is too tall to go unnoticed.  We know he is too huge to be missing in the affairs of things. Congratulations to him.” Speaking on Onyejeocha, Godson said “Hon. Onyejeocha’s achievements are intimidating even for men. She’s a gift and the confirmation of her importance has become more national than regional. “Her new position is not an accident.  It’s as a result of years long of hard work and exemplary representation of the good people of Isiukwuato/ Umunneochi Federal Constituency and Abia State at large. “She’s also one of our leaders and a woman of great abilities. Congratulations to her and we believe that through her, other women will be motivated to see why they have to come in and build this country together with the men using their wealth of experience.”