The Federal Capital Territory Ultra Modern Youth Support Centre, Nyanya, has trained more than 5000 youths in different skills in the last five years.
Ms Hajarat Alayande, Director, Youth Development, Social Development Secretariat, disclosed this during a tour of the facility on Friday in Abuja.
She said the centre was also planning to commercialise its services to generate revenue for the FCT Administration.
“In the past, we used to train over a thousand in a year, but we are now incapacitated because of funding.
“Between December 2018 and now, we are able to train and empower about 65 young people.
“We gave out equipments to 40 in December, cutting across ICT, barbing, lady saloon and so on.
“January 2019, we trained 25 people in leather works and before they left the camp, they were already selling their products. So we gave them the sewing and filing machines and some money for them to start their business.”
The director explained that the youth centre provides services such as training in welding and fabrication for production of iron beds, cooking stoves and burglary proofs.
According to her, in addition to a modern printing press, the centre produces different kinds of sandals and shoes; carries out bead making, soap making, tailoring and barbing, assorted bags for ladies, lunch bags and carpets.
She appealed to corporate bodies and philanthropists to partner with the FCTA through the centre to shore up internally generated revenue and provide employment to youths.
Alayande called on Chairmen of the six Area Councils to show more commitment in empowering the youths in order to encourage entrepreneurship in the territory.
She also urged the Area Councils to provide space for youths to start businesses and also give them working tools after training.
“This will enable them to remain within their communities, be self-reliant, train and employ others.
“Presently, we are training over 20 youths in welding and fabrication and we invited 30 youths from the six Area Councils, youth organisations, faith-based organisations and the FCT National Youth Council, but only 20 turned up.”
Olayande said that the centre had shortened the time required for the training to encourage more to come and also due to lack of resources.
“The skill of welding is suppose to be a long time training for three years for apprenticeship training of welding.
“What we have been able to do in the youth centre is drawing the modus simplifying the skills into acceptable modus that can kick start a young person to start earning money.
“We are giving them starter packs, which is the welding machines, although it is not within this package. We are going to submit it to the authority.
“The basic idea is that by the time they finish training in this center, they would have gotten the basics to be able to handle all kinds of welding jobs.”
Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Christiana Yakubu, appreciated the government for the opportunity, adding that she was excited with the prospect to become the first female in welding and fabrication in her community.
Yakubu said she did not want to sit at home waiting for GCE and called on other young girls to find something doing to support themselves and families.