About 24 hours after the Ijegun pipeline explosion which killed two persons and left over 20 residents severely injured with millions of naira property including 30 vehicles burnt, residents yesterday said that they perceived odour of a petroleum products for hours before the explosion which wreaked havoc in the communities.  According to them, after sensing the imminent tragedy, they made several efforts to avert loss of lives and property by alerting other residents not to switch on gas cookers, ignite vehicles, generators or use of matches but it was too late to prevent the disaster.  This was even as Saturday Telegraph gathered that a family of nine  comprising the father, mother, children and their siblings were also involved in the tragedy that rendered many residents homeless in the community. Hours after the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) pipeline exploded in Ijegun community, Alimosho Local Government, the residents were still counting their losses while some are still worried about the fate of their neighbours and those who died in the incident and those who are still suffering from severe burns sustained in the incident.  They blamed the incidents on the vandals just as many decried government’s inability to checkmate the activities of vandals in the area. Among the families who are critical lying at Gbagada General Hospital and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital following degrees of injuries suffered were Modiu, Adeboye and Sunday families.  They all suffered various degrees of burns in the inferno. It was learnt that the families were caught in the fire by the spilled content of the scooped petroleum product that flowed through the drainages in front and beside their house. While some were sleeping when the incident occurred, others were in a commercial bus in Irede Street, a few kilometres from the fire scene when the fire gutted the vehicle through the fuel that had poured into the gutter.  The official added that we have 9 members of Modiu families involved comprising father, mother and six children. Others are families of four and six who are either dead or recuperating in the hospital Narrating their ordeal in the tragic morning, Umaru Muhammed, 32, said he escaped by a whisker in the tragic incident. “Just few minutes after we went in different directions, I heard a loud bang. I ran for safety and only to discover that one of us, Bashir was caught in the explosion and died,” he added.