A fter weeks of speculations and permutations, the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, finally transmitted a list of 25 Commissioner-designates and Special Advisers to the state House of Assembly for ratification.   Among the Commissioner-designates are the Editor of The Nation newspaper, Mr Gbenga Omotoso; former Secretary to the State Government, Mr Tunji Bello; former Commissioner for Housing, Prince Gbolahan Lawal; former Commissioner for Wealth Creation, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile Yusuf and her counterpart in the Ministry of Science and Technology,  Mr Hakeem Fahm.   Other nominees are: the former Commissioner for Special Duties, Dr. Wale Ahmed; Mr. Rabiu Olowo Onaolapo, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, Prof. Akin Abayomi, Dr. Idris Salako, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, Mrs. Bolaji Dada, Mr. Lere Odusote, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, Ms. Adekemi Ajayi, Mr. Femi George, , Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo (SAN).  Others are Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye,   Mr. Segun Dawodu,   Mr. Sam Egube, Ms Ruth Bisola Olusanya, Princess Aderemi Adebowale,  Mr. Tunbosun Alake and Mr. Afolabi Ayantayo.   They are to assume duty as Commissioners and Special Advisers upon ratification by the legislature. The commissioner designates comprise 17 men and eight women.   In a statement yesterday, the Governor’s Deputy Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said Sanwo-Olu carefully picked the nominees based on their cognate experience in their respective professions.   The list, Akosile said, comprised names of technocrats and politicians, who understand the challenges of the state, noting that the painstaking and laborious selection process was aimed at constituting the best team that would serve Lagos in line with the agenda of his administration, vision of delivering a city-state that will rank among the top most liveable cities in the world.   Sanwo-Olu was quoted as saying in the statement:“We took our time to pick the best hands for the tough job Lagosians have elected us to do. The nominees for the 25 Commissioner and Special Adviser positions include women and men who have made their mark and at the zenith of their professional callings.’’   Sanwo-Olu’ media aide stated further that the current list is first batch, saying that consultation was going on with regard to the complete number of the cabinet members.