A coalition of pro- Biafra groups namely, the Biafra Independence Organisation, Igbo Revolutionary Movement, Eastern Peoples Renewal, Biafra Clergy Network and others have called on all groups within the old Eastern region to unite and fight a common enemy. The group in a statement issued by its Administrative Secretary, Emeka Ibekwe, said Fulani’s onslaught against the Christian dominated southern Nigeria calls for urgent and proper proactive measures. The coalition warned that the current situation is no time for disunity among pro-Biafra groups, but a time for synergies among leading pro Biafra groups, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Igbo governors and traditional, religious, political and opinion leaders of Igbo land. It went further to condemn the accusations against the governors of southeast mostly Governors Okezie Ikpeazu and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Abia and Enugu states respectively that they have given out some lands in their states for Fulani herdsmen inhabitation. The group stressed that such accusation against the governors is capable of jeopardizing the synergistic approach to disband those they referred to as foreign marauders in the name of Fulani herdsmen They challenged the traditional rulers and president-general of the host communities of the lands allegedly given to Fulani herdsmen by state governors to show proof of evidences that their state governor gave out lands to herdsmen. The statement reads: “The latest implosions of Fulani’s onslaught with the backing of President Mohammadu Buhari against the Christian dominated southern Nigeria calls for urgent and proper reactionary measures. “Now is the time to build more synergies among the leading pro Biafra groups, Ohaneze Ndigbo, Igbo governors and traditional, religious, political and opinion leaders of Igbo land. “This not the time of apportioning blames against each other. Our people must avoid provocative and inciting statements that pitch one against another. “The coalition of pro Biafra groups condemned the false accusations against the governors of southeast mostly Governors Okezie Ikpeazu and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Abia and Enugu States respectively that they have given out their land for Fulani herdsmen inhabitation. “This inciting falsehood against the governors is ca-pable of jeopardizing the synergistic approach to disband these foreign marauders called Fulani herdsmen “Ndigbo must know that the strength in unity of purpose is far greater than a sectional strength of one and his group. “We also hail southeast governors for banning open grazing of cows in Igbo land. We urge them to emulate their Abia state brother, Governor Ikpeazu in his vision in establishing Enyimba Economic City at Aba.”