  Chief Ralph Obioha, a Second Republic member of the House of Representatives, is a chieftain of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on insecurity in Nigeria, the Muhammadu Buhari administration, 2023 presidency, among other issues  One of the issues Nigeria is battling with at the moment is insecurity. What is your take on it?  My take is that we have a very critical security concern, which Nigerians have unanimously agreed that it is a major threat to the country’s survival. It started with Boko Haram and seems to be concentrated then in the North-East, but it has actually spread now that you hear that the North-West is also being challenge by the same burden. A lot of people will tell you that it is another colouration of an invasion from outside over criminal activities and illicit mining of gold there. This is coupled with the one that seems to have manifested heavily in the Southern part of the country, which is attacks by Fulani herdsmen.  Again, it is another security concern. So, I think the issue of insecurity in the country has now become wide spread that it is a major concern. I have advocated that the need for us to stop pointing fingers and look at it as a national emergency. I gave an interview in the past, where I called on all statesmen and the president to lead the queue to get the real template that will definitely address the issue of insecurity and find a lasting solution to it. How do you think that lasting peace can be achieved?  How it can be achieved is for everybody to know it is no more pointing fingers at the president, politicians, religious bodies or seeing the issue as a regional one. It is a national issue that should be tabled for everybody can contribute.   But some people seem to have attached ethnicity and religion to the issue of insecurity…  Pointing of fingers should be avoided whether ethnic or religion. We have all accepted that it is now a national issue and I always believe in dialogue though many people don’t agree with me on this. Dialogue is a necessary ingredient in resolving any issue. The alternative is to get into some forms of civil unrest and nobody gains from it; whether it is the person who believes he has higher hand. Instead of getting into any unrest, let us agree that there is need for dialogue on how to resolve it.   Talking about herdsmen, I was born to know that there was grazing of cattle around me as a child and there were no issues then. How that has become an issue is what baffles me. Then, nobody was carrying gun in doing this grazing. How is AK47 now involved in grazing? If you ask, the other party will say that their cattle are being rustled. And I say again, like a child, I have not seen any cattle being rustled in the areas where I grew up. Nobody ever planned or suggested that people will steal or kill people’s cattle, but in a situation where those cattle destroyed farmlands, I was aware that there were ways those things were resolved; there were also settlement for crops destroyed.   Why we can’t return to that era also baffles me? It will continue to be an issue when people get raped and killed and there are real evidences of those happenings? Any government should be sensitive to this and arrest the situation.  Do you think the attacks by the herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgency have any link with the alleged plot to Islamise and Fulanise Nigeria?   This is been hyped in the social media. When did all these Islamisation and Fulanisation start? Maybe, about two years ago. It was not there 20 years ago neither was it there 15 or 10 years ago. Again, it is a call for us to all sit dispassionately without emotions and table the issue about insecurity as far as it affects lives and property. We should avoid tagging Islamisation or Fulanisation. The two main religions from the beginning have always advocated for converts and it is the whole purpose of religion. Years back, only two denominations of Christianity were known by people, you are either a Catholic or a Protestant, but now, you have Pentecostals of all different shapes. I understand the same thing is evolving in the Islamic faith.   So, let us leave what has been built up now that the crescendo is so high that very soon we might lose actually the direction of making sure that everybody benefits in a peaceful society. Everybody loses in a civil unrest. I have always advocated that there should be a matured mindset to tackle these things and nobody can convince me to the contrary. I am not prepared to encourage stand at opposite angles, where at a point, we may lose the voice of reasoning to try to bring everybody to come and dialogue.   It has been over 40 days that President Muhammadu Buhari was sworn-in for a second term and many had thought he would hit the ground running by appointing members of his cabinet, but he is yet to do so…   Nobody can ever advance any reason for such delay. He has been there for over four years; he should have in the course of the four years been able to identify people he believes he can work with. May be, the President is being delayed by the suit filed against him by the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Atiku. The President would be assisted more by the judiciary if it expeditiously discharge its responsibilities by either upholding his election or otherwise.   The same thing we are talking about Buhari applies to Atiku as there is no more time to waste. The President should quickly hit the ground running. We must run away from the assumption that his challenge is ill-conceived or not. He has the right to do what he is doing.   Are you saying that President Buhari should not name ministers until the final judgement on the suit against his election?  I am not saying that. All I am saying is that since he has not done it over one month; I am only trying to read his mind that he may actually be delaying to know the outcome of the case about his election. And the judiciary can actually assist by hastening up in determining if he is the winner or not. And whoever is declared finally as president of Nigeria should know that Nigerians do not have leisure of time not to put people to work to alleviate their suffering. There is a kind of low action going on in the economy, polity and everything in Nigeria.  The President, while campaigning for the 2015 general elections said he will address insecurity, corruption and economy. Do you think he did well in his first term as regards to these issues and what are your expectations in his second term?  Let nobody be under the illusion that President Buhari didn’t make any contributions to Nigeria in terms of those areas you mentioned. If we just play back five years ago, there was carelessness and rascality in the distribution of resources, particularly oil subsidy. Money was just being thrown around without any accountability. That was the height of recklessness; the kind of figures that were being thrown out as if money was like bazaar. Let us at least give him some kudos and credit on that.  Secondly, they seem to have arrested the inflation that manifested when he took over power in 2015. To some extent, if we want to tell ourselves the truth, up till four years ago, Nigerians were living above their means which they still do till today. You can never explain    there are no hospitals, no good roads and no transportation; people were using private aircraft more than they were using road transportation. We have a situation then where less than one per cent of the population was consuming the wealth of other 99 per cent. That has slightly changed. And I keep pleading with Nigerians that these are the core things to check. A lot of intervention programmes were introduced in Nigeria.  Go and look at people who used those intervention funds on education, trade and so many other incentives that were implemented to take care of that. But again the funds went to few individuals, who again diverted them into something that did not touch the areas that it was supposed to impact on. Sane minds are aware of all these.  Look at our education, the elites didn’t take care of the public schools, they all rush into private expensive schools and now some of them cannot afford private schools and the public school system have been destroyed. Any other clime pays more attention on the public school system more than they pay on the private school system.  And Nigerians are still asking, where are all these instability and insecurity coming from?  They are coming from the fact that we didn’t take care of the core critical mass because they are the ones that would feel the needle.  Has it ever occurred to Nigerians that in every neighbourhood in the world, where you have the most magnificent building, there is also in one corner of it, middle and low class income buildings that service the masses. And how do Nigerians feel about those who think that their maids should be travelling four hours every morning to come and give a service and four hours to go back to look after their own children.  These are things that we have never addressed and we are still wondering about the causes of insecurity. In their excuses, they will use religion and ethnicity to escape the realities of the irresponsibility of the elites.  President Buhari has barely settled down in office for a second term and the battle for 2023 presidency has commenced.   What do you make of that?  It is because in looking for something to lash on, people are talking about four years of today, when everything as of today is in a total mess. It burgles the mind that such discussion should be on. But again, it is like a person who is on a drug; he believes if he takes a higher dose of the drug, he will escape his habit. But, he will find out that as it increases, the thing gets worse. I have great hope for Nigeria because it is a potentially great nation. I will never lose sight of it that it can be corrected. I will never give up on Nigeria.  But, also at the same time, I am saying that they should engage serious-minded Nigerians to see whether we can get out of the woods. It is even very difficult for advanced democracies to correct their problems not to talk about our own democracy that is not only fragile, but still very young. We have just practiced this democracy for only 20 years and so many things are still in perspective. Though I am optimistic that with time, we will see improvement, but the way we are going doesn’t give hope that there would be an improvement.  What is the reason for that pessimism?  I said that because if you look around, you will see how supposed leaders who have been at the top leadership of Nigeria are now withdrawing into their conclaves, seeking the safety of their situation in their own ethnic nationalities because the language of ethnicity seems to have now occupied our space that you find it difficult to find a few people who are reasoning on the national, patriotic and advancement of a potentially great nation. Nigeria is great in spite of whatever one may say, so we should have faith that we can overcome some of the struggles that is panning out every day.  It is a class struggle as far as I see it and I am calling on the top class to have the heart of the less privileged. In the absence of it; when you look at the number of jobless youths, it should be a major concern for us to see how we can create meaningful employment for them. There are no opportunities any more in Nigeria for the teeming population.  Many people cannot train their children to the university level and at the same time think they will be toppusher in the market. It doesn’t add up but you can create opportunities. I have looked at it critically in the past and I think the absence of energy in Nigeria is one of the things pulling us down.  What Nigeria needs in term of electricity, the hydros will not be able to provide it. Nigeria needs in excess of at least 50,000 megawatts of electricity if we are going to get out of this situation.  It will be too ambitious to think that 50,000 megawatts can be produced overnight. Let us be modest and talk about increasing from the 4,000 megawatts we have to 10,000 megawatts. If we concentrate on that, it is attainable in Nigeria. I believe it is the effort Nigeria can make in the next five years if we are going to get our youths seriously engaged in strong production of the things that can be used internally in Nigeria and exported to our neighbours because comparable to the western income structure, Nigeria is still a cheap labour market that can be exploited.  And by our proximity to Europe and America, some of the items that required manpower can be produced here and exported to nearby continents of Europe and America. These are strategic and it can be attained. Let us look at the core things that we are proud of producing and exporting through manpower.  In the North, it was groundnut. In the West, it was cocoa and in the East, it was palm products. All those cannot meet our own internal consumption anymore not to talk about export. These are not rocket science; these are practical issues that we can do.  Why has it been difficult to achieve all these things you highlighted?  It is because we didn’t have visionary leaders. We had them in the past, but we don’t have them anymore. A lot of us who supported Buhari four years ago did so not on the basis of ethnicity because if it was by that, we would have supported our own.  We supported him because we have had a vision of him as a very strong determined leader. That was the only basis. But in the course of his last four years, anybody who assesses him on performance cannot say that he succeeded.  One is also praying that in this second opportunity, he will really get down to serious work, put capable hands and who will do serious work. I have never seen any serious country that will allow its minister of Works to be flying to destinations.  The President should be able to insist that the minister of Works should go to every destination by road, so that he or she will see the state of the roads.  You said most of you supported Buhari four years ago; will you say that you regret that action?  First of all, there is element of regret. If I don’t say that, I will not be honest to myself.  The basis of the regret is that we gave that support, believing Nigeria will move to a direction of meaningful development, but one cannot see meaningful development.   The 2023 presidency has rekindled the political scheming between the North and South as leaders from both divides have started agitating for the position. What does this portend for the polity?  I am a realist. So, I will for example suggest that the South-East should take its politics seriously and embark on serious bridgebuilding as well as telling other Nigerians that we can do better than the leaders we have had in the past as far as national concern is considered; and the way we want to do it is A, B, C and D. Democracy is a game of numbers; that is the reality and there is no sentiment about that. If we concentrate on the population of the South-East, we don’t have the numbers to produce a president.  There was a time the East did it and they succeeded, they didn’t do by jingoism of ‘it is our right and turn.’ such taunt doesn’t exist in democracy. In democracy, you need to canvass your views and if they are superior to the other party’s views, you will prevail. But, you must build bridges; that bridge leads to forward planning.  The South-East has four years to do the planning, but if they still remain in their cocoon of the belief that it is their right, they will continue to fail because the other regions will say it is their right too and if they have more numbers, they will prevail. The truth is that there is no region in Nigeria that can say that it has the number to do it alone.  The battle is who configures the formula where he builds a larger constituency and the Northerners seem to have been experts in that. I had always told people when we gathered that if the four regions that said today that they are playing second fiddles because this second fiddle is not only unique to what the Igbo are crying for. I have always said that to be a vice president is easy and anybody can be vice president; it is an inferior partnership.  That is the reality. If the ambition of the South- East, South-West or South-South is to become vice president, it is not an ambition but only an attainment. The ambition is to become president. But if that presidency is to encourage regionalism in terms of things that would come to my region, then it will not fly. The South-East must try to show to Nigerians that what they are asking for is to produce a leader, who will cut across all regions and make Nigeria move on.  Don’t you use see the North as a threat to South-East’s ambition of producing the president in 2023?  If the North plays their card the way they have been playing it and succeeded, why should they change the tactics?   When I say it is time for them (South-East) to do the work, I am not saying the work will manifest in four years’ time. It could manifest in four or eight years’ time as long as there is a forward movement.  As of now, there is nothing in the horizon that it will happen in four or eight years’ time, not to talk of 12 years. We must also take cognisance in order for us to increase the number of people who see the point of view from a different perspective. I have always said that we must look for a leader that will make Nigeria work for everybody.  Are you saying that ethnicity should not be a yardstick for who occupies the presidency?  No, it shouldn’t be a yardstick for the presidency.  What should be the yardstick is who can lift Nigerians up. And even in this configuration called Nigeria; there are gifts that have been spread fairly well. The gift for the South-East is buying and selling in a civilised way called commerce and it should be exploited to the fullest.  The South-West has been given the knowledge of being great in finance, while the North is the food basket of Nigeria. They should also exploit that to its fullest.  When people talk about colonies and cattle rearing, there will be an acceptable solution to it if we can all dialogue and sit round on a table because Nigerians need the protein that comes from the cattle.   July 7 was 21years of the demise of the winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief MKO Abiola. What are your reflections on events of that era?  I have decided not to actually discuss anything more about June 12, and Abiola.  Probably, I took that decision out of anger. I believe the significance of June 12 was misplaced. Abiola and Kudirat’s struggles have a place in democratic evolvement in Nigeria and that has been universally accepted. Wherever Abiola may be today, I pray that he finds fulfillment that his struggles were not in vain.  At least, the right step has been taken in recognizing him and I give kudos to President Buhari because there have been other presidents before him, who shied away from that. I will continue to thank Mr. President for recognition of June 12.  I was happy when I read that History has been restored into our curriculum in schools. Any nation that doesn’t have history is a vacuum because history is important as a reference point to a nation. So, I thank Mr. President for recognising the significance of June 12 and also I thank Nigerians for the reception they gave to it. Abiola’s memory will never die in vain because of his contribution to nation building.