 T he people of Obe in Kanu West Local Government area of Enugu State at the weekend visited the residence of former Super Eagles coach and captain, Christian Chukwu, to felicitate with him over his recovery.  Chukwu returned to the country last week from London hospital where he went for medical treatment.  Business mogul, Mr. Femi Otedola, had donated $50,000 for Chukwu’s overseas treatment, aside from contributions from the Enugu State government and others.  The delegation led by High Chief Patty Agu, the Onowu (traditional prime minister) to late Igwe Paul Ogbogu of Obe-Agbor, expressed gratitude to God for using Otedola, Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwanyi and others to help Chukwu get the best medical treatment and save his life.  They thanked the President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick; US-based business man and patron of Rangers International Football Club of Enugu, Mr. Benson Ejindu, who put Chukwu’s health condition on social media, and the management of Rangers for standing behind Chukwu in his time of need.  High Chief Agu said: “We are gathered here in the house of one of our own not because of food or drinks but to thank God. I know that men care but God cures. If it had not been the Lord, who is first on his side and on our side, it could have been a different story. But we give God all the honour and glory.  “We want to use this opportunity to thank His Excellency Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, for the rapid response when he heard that our own was down and sick.  “We thank the management of Enugu Rangers where he was the captain and coach; we thank the heavyweight champion of Nigeria, Africa and the world in general, Femi Otedola, for his great magnanimity; and we than NFF president Amaju Pinnick and Benson Ejindu for their roles.”  Similarly, a member of the delegation, Dr. John Nwabueze Chukwuani, stated that Chukwu has grown beyond Obe and Enugu state to become a pan-Nigerian, and an iconic figure.  “We thank God immensely for keeping his life; Christian was the captain of Green Eagles when it was Green Eagles; I think we got our first Cup of Nations through his captaincy, because before then that cup was the exclusive preserve of the Francophone countries.”  Also speaking, a prominent member of Obe community, Chief (Dr) Charles Chuks Orji, described Chukwu as one of the greatest soccer players in Nigeria.  “He is called ‘Chairman’; he can score at centre-half, and under his leadership Nigeria became famous in soccer and through him many people started playing football in Obe, Ogbuke, Tony Oji, Victor Nwachukwu, Charles Anieke, and the rest of them.  “The soccer field that is being sponsored by the federal government is right in front of his (Chukwu’s) father’s house, and his name was used to attract it.”  Reacting, Chukwu expressed gratitude to his people for their prayers and for thanking those that assisted him to get treatment.  He said: “I’m overwhelmed, seeing my townspeople, my brothers and sisters coming to know how I’m recuperating since I came back. And you people have already thanked everybody for me; and I have to thank you people for making out time to come and see me and thank God and everybody for me. God will bless all of you in Jesus name, amen.”