  A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade Timi Frank, has called on more Nigerians to come up with more credible evidence in their possessions that clearly show that the electoral umpire made use of server to transmit election result in the last presidential election.  Frank while commending a former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri, who has just released some documents  claimed to have shown that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) deployed the use of computer server for electronic transmission of the 2019 election results, declared that leadership of the current electoral body lied on oath and can no longer be credible to conduct any election.  Reacting to Omokri’s revelations through a statement he made available to newsmen in Abuja, Frank said INEC must be forced to produce the central server it used during the presidential election.  Omokri in a post on his verified Twitter handle released a document containing state-by-state breakdown of compliance with returning of presidential elections data to the server.  He tweeted, ”This is a circular from INEC to its 36 Resident Electoral Commissioners, threatening sanctions on RECs who fail to send data to INEC HQ through their server. INCONTROVERTIBLE evidence @INECNigeria has and had a server.”  The Bayelsa-born political activist, however, said that leaders of thought and all Nigerians who are in possession of one document or the other regarding the controversial central server should speak up now for posterity sake.  While calling on Judiciary to take note of the latest evidence in circulation, also urged the Court of law to conquer fear and intimidation which he said the APC administration is known for but do the needful because of posperity.  “Nigerians are patiently waiting for the determination of the Judiciary which is the last hope of a common man. Atiku Abubakar’s stolen mandate must be returned. Nigerians are tired of a directionless government of APC where huge debt is threatening the nation, where poverty, unemployment, all manners of killings, kidnapping and injustices are fast becoming the order of the day,” Frank stated.  He also said: “Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led INEC has gone down in history as the worst electoral empire which posterity will hardly forgive. All the known credible local and international observers totally condemned the outcome of the last general elections under Mr. Yakubu.  “The Judiciary should know that the world, all relevant international organizations and Nigerians at home and abroad are watching the unfolding events regarding the central server used to compile the last election. This particular case must not be likened to that of Ademola Adeleke in Osun State. The Judiciary must, however, redeem its image.”  Frank, therefore, called on the international community to pay more attention on the ongoing debate and ensure proper sanction of the electoral officials when it becomes clear how they manipulated the outcome of the last presidential election. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) has accused has rejected any plan by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to use former members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) as ad hoc staff for the general elections. Director, Media and Publicity of PDP Presidential Council, Kola… In "News" Though the current tango over transmission of the results of the 2019 presidential election is between the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ONYEKACHI EZE writes that the emerging information indicate great threat to integrity of Nigeria’s polls   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) believes… In "Politics" The Presidential Campaign Council of the All Progressives Council (APC) has petitioned the Inspector-General of Police and the Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS) over an alleged hacking into the server of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), culminating in the release of "fake results" of the 2019… In "News"