●Akume, Akpabio, Amaechi, Mamora, others take bows  The Senate, yesterday, commenced the screening of 43 ministerial nominees forwarded to it on Tuesday by President Muhammadu Buhari. This was as the nominees, who were screened, promised that if confirmed, they will help President Buhari to tackle the various socio-economic problems troubling the country. The first nominee, who was grilled by the Senate for one hour, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah from Abia State, while responding to a question on the workability of the refineries, specifically said that if appointed Minister of Petroleum, he will fix the four refineries to function optimally. He said: “I can assure you that if given the opportunity, the four refineries in Nigeria need to work. Because we have done it in the private sector and I can tell you that it is something that is possible because you get people to do what you want to do. Our refineries can work because what we need is the will power.” He also tasked the Ninth National Assembly to carry out the reforms embedded in the Petroleum Industry Governance (PIGB) to unlock its huge potential for economic growth and development of the country. Ogah said that the reforms were capable of creating more jobs and revenue that will catalyse the country’s economy. “Once the PIGB is passed, it will help the economy in ensuring that investors will come into the country. Once they don’t have guaranteed crude oil, it is like building a house and nobody comes in there. So, it is very difficult for people to put their money when they know that there is no source of crude to use in operating their refineries,” he said. He also made a case for “guided deregulation” of the petroleum downstream sector. “There is no country that allows its currency to be fixed. Every currency is usually being floated. If you decide to deregulate the Nigerian petroleum sector, especially the downstream, it must be a guided deregulation in the sense that you don’t allow everybody to dump on us because there will be an impact on our foreign exchange. “So, we must guide our currency because our ability to guide it is what makes it go up and go down. If we had in the past grown our foreign reserve, I can tell you our currency wouldn’t have gone the way it is today. I believe that with what is going on, the naira at the price which it is today, is okay for the nation,” he added. Responding to a question on diversification of the economy, Ogah stressed the need to build critical infrastructure, namely; electricity, roads, hospitals and schools, advising that the country should not concentrate its infrastructural development in urban areas. He further advised that the country should also develop agriculture and not depend on oil, saying: “We can export and feed the entire world. We have the human capital. Nigerian budget cannot drive the economy. The woe of Africa came into existence as a result of exportation of African youths to Europe. South Korea does not have oil, but it is growing, economically. We should develop our youths.” On his part, the immediate past Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, who was re-nominated, told the Senate that Nigeria had made giant strides in science and technology in the last four years of President Buhari’s administration. He pointed out that the multi-million dollar Nigerian satellite orbit, which disappeared from the space had been replaced by the government of China at no cost to the Nigerian government. Onu said the Ministry of Science and Technology in the last four years has been able to increase awareness of Nigerians on the importance of technology to nation building, adding that it has also promoted commercialisation of research in the country. According to him, the Federal Government is moving the economy from a commodity-based economy to a science-based knowledge economy. This, he explained had resulted in the increase of patent rights from 16 in 2015 to 58 in 2018. He also noted that the ministry through the support of the Federal Government, championed the Executive Order No. 5, designed to transform Nigeria into a science and technology base like China and other countries. The former university teacher assured that if reappointed to man the same sector, he will do more to take the country to higher heights in terms of technological advancement. Onu listed some of the achievements of the ministry to also include development of a drug in the natural medicine designed to test women who have breast cancer, adding that SHESCO, an agency of the ministry, has already developed the cure for epilepsy, noting that the drug is undergoing certification. The former governor of old Abia State, however, advocated the inculcation of science and technology-based knowledge into Nigerian children via indigenous languages, saying this will increase their interest in science and technology. Also, former Minister of Education, Mr. Adamu Adamu, in responding to questions from senators, said that nobody will succeed in the fight against corruption unless extra judicial means were applied because Nigerians don’t like obeying laws. “While government is fighting corruption, jailing people and confiscating their property, corruption is still going on. Therefore, the National Assembly should help the President by enacting laws that will make it tougher for people to commit corruption,” he said. Commenting on the state of primary education in Nigeria, he said: “The story of primary education is a very sorry story. Basic education in the country is in a very bad shape. The primary school is not under the control of the Federal Government. It is within the jurisdiction of the state governments, but they can be advised to improve on the system.” He disclosed that about 17 million children were out of school as at February 2018, but government’s policy has helped to reduce the number by four million. Adamu also said that the present government has witnessed the least number of strikes in the country, saying that the major problem causing strikes is poor funding and that if the problem of funding is tackled, strikes would become history in Nigeria. Meanwhile, former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, was advised that Nigerian cities and states should be fully linked with railway lines before extension to other nations. In a related development, some ministerial nominees with legislative experience at both the national and state levels were given the opportunity to take a bow during their screening by the Senate without being asked questions. They include a former Minority Leader of the upper legislative chamber, Senator George Akume from Benue State and Senator Godswill Akpabio from Akwa Ibom State. While Akume represented Benue North West from 6th to 8th Assembly, Akpabio represented Akwa Ibom North West for only one term in the 8th Assembly, but they are both two-term governors of their states on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Others, who were also allowed to take a bow and go are the former Minister of Transportation, Amaechi based on his experience as the Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly and Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora, also a former Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly and lawmaker at the upper legislative chamber for two terms. Another beneficiary of the “take a bow and go” was a serving member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Emeka Nwajuba from Imo State and Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor from Anambra State, the only woman screened yesterday. Senator Emmanuel Oker-Jef  (PDP Benue North West) had called on the Senate to maintain the tradition of allowing former lawmakers nominated for ministerial positions to take a bow without being asked questions. Other senators, who urged the Senate to accord their former colleagues the privilege, include Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege and the Minority Leader, Abaribe. The lawmakers had in a voice vote put across by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, resolved to allow the nominees go without a question. In his remarks, Lawan said the nation would be better if the executive and the legislature work together in the interest of the people and therefore urged the nominees to lead the vanguard that would result in the delivery of democratic dividends when they become ministers. Speaking with journalists after his screening, Akpabio said he will do his best to assist the government deliver on its obligations to Nigerians. According to him, the issues of insecurity, power and revamping of agriculture are key to growing the economy and to make Nigeria better. He also said there is the need to unbundle the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for better performance of the oil sector and to account for crude oil produced by Nigeria. He said although it was the prerogative of the President to designate position, he noted that he will contribute maximally in any sector deployed to serve. Akpabio further said there is the need to create opportunities for youths through job creation and advised Nigerians to encourage President Buhari to further deliver on dividends of democracy given his transparent disposition. A total of 10 nominees, including Arch. Olamilekan Adegbite from Ogun State were screened yesterday.