Former National chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, yesterday took a swipe at his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, describing him as a disgrace to the ruling party and Edo State.  Oyegun, who was reacting to the ongoing battle for supremacy between Oshiomhole and Governor Godwin Obaseki, accused the APC National Chairman of fuelling the crisis plaguing the Edo State House of Assembly in a desperate bid to remain in control of the power levers in the state.  The former party leader, who once governed Edo State, said he was yet to come to terms as to why Oshiomhole, who claims to have fought and defeated political godfathers in Edo State during his tenure, would choose to play the godfather after he had completed his tenure and moved on to higher responsibilities.  Oyegun, in a statement issued by his Public Affairs Adviser, Chief Ray Morphy, wondered why Oshiomhole failed to realise that Governor Obaseki should be supported as the only APC governor in the South-South geopolitical zone rather than vilifying and destabilising his administration.  He specifically urged the Progressive Governors’ Forum not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor being harassed and distracted by a party chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune for the party.  His words: “The recent outburst by Governor Obaseki and the report by the House of Representatives ad hoc committee, indicting the current National Chairman of the APC, have confirmed my earlier claim that Oshiomhole is not only the architect, but is also responsible for fuelling the crisis in Edo state.  “In the face of these confirmations, I want to urge Oshiomhole to stop disgracing the ruling party and the good people of Edo State. I wonder how he could easily forget that I never interfered or bothered about how he ran the government as the then governor of Edo State all the while I occupied the position of the party’s National Chairman.  “I am yet to come to terms why it has become difficult for Oshiomhole to realise that Governor Obaseki is the only APC governor in the entire South-south and should be allowed to concentrate in giving the people of Edo the dividend of democracy.  “It is shocking that a man who boastfully claimed to have buried godfatherism in the Edo State politics could become enmeshed in playing God to his successor. Oshiomhole is not only guilty of godfatherism, but also guilty of anti-party activities considering the ignorable role he has been playing and his shameful involvement in the whole Edo crisis.  “Rather than dissipating energy in fomenting more crises, Oshiomhole should rather concentrate in ensuring that the Federal Government policies conform with the party’s manifesto and campaign promises to the good people of this country.  “I appeal to him once more to stop disgracing the governing party, the APC and Edo State. He should give the governor a breathing space to concentrate in doing the job of serving the people of Edo State.  “I want to also appeal to the APC governors not to stand aside and watch their fellow governor hampered by a party chairman whose actions may lead to political misfortune of the party in the state.”  However, the Chief Press Secretary to Oshiomhole, Mr. Simon Ebegbulem, has dismissed the statement, insisting that Oyegun himself should speak instead of passing his message through a proxy.   Asked to comment on the story credited to Oyegun against his principal, Ebegbulem said: “I have no comment. Chief Oyegun is a respected leader of the party and an elder statesman. Comrade Oshiomhole has so much respect for him. If he really wants to address Oshiomhole, he can come out openly to address the man who succeeded him in office and not one Murphy.”