SLOW DOWN Investors have continued to trade cautiously in the short to medium term, as selloffs persist  Investors in banks quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) reported a cumulative loss of about N240 billion during the half year ended June 2019 following sell pressure.  The stocks recorded the loss despite impressive earnings results and dividends released by most lenders in the sector and also the listing of telecom giant, MTN Nigeria Plc., which was expected to bring positive sentiment to the stock market. Checks by New Telegraph revealed that the stocks recorded a loss of N240 billion or 8.44 per cent to close at N2.603 trillion in market capitalisation on the last trading day of June 28 as against opening figure of N2.843 trillion at the beginning of trading on January 2. Market analysts believed bargain hunters, especially foreign portfolio investors, who dominate the equity market, have continued to trade cautiously in the short to medium term, as selloffs persisted, amidst the growing political and security tension arising from the recently-concluded general polls. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had said that the major contributory factor to the current downward trend of the market is the outflow of foreign investment. Acting Director General of the SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, who spoke while responding to questions from journalists recently, said the outflow has led to sell pressure accumulating into depressed prices. This, she said, is one of the reasons why the Commission is mapping out strategies to build confidence in the market and encourage more retail investors. The local bourse also said that currently there are about 3 million retail investors in the Nigerian Capital Market, representing only three per cent of the total adult populace in the country. The Divisional Head, Trading Business, Mr. Jude Chiemeka, disclosed this at the maiden edition of Retail Investor Workshop tagged ‘Investment Masterclass; Making your money work,’ organised by NSE. According to Chiemeka, “Nigeria has a population of over 190 million people and is the second largest economy in Africa. However, the current Financial Inclusion indices of 48 per cent leave much to be desired. Financial Inclusion is a priority of stakeholders in the Capital Market, and the Nigerian Stock Exchange makes it a primary concern to contribute towards the achievement of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy of reducing the proportion of adult Nigerians that are financially excluded to 20 per cent in the year 2020.” Chiemeka noted that the Exchange recognizes the need to improve investor participation, and is leveraging recent Capital Market Initiatives such as the Tiered KYC requirements for capital market investments, as well as promoting the introduction of globally competitive investment products with low entry thresholds, to achieve Financial Inclusion goals. “These initiatives have begun to yield positive results as the market has in recent times witnessed an upturn in retail investor participation. Market data from 2019 shows that retail investors outperformed institutional investors by 8 per cent in January, and again by 2 per cent in March 2019. “The Retail Coverage Department of the NSE will be rolling out measures directed at encouraging retail investor involvement in the Capital Markets. Over the next few years, various investment workshops will be held across the country, starting with this one here in Lagos. Investors can look forward to regular engagements targeted at promoting Financial Literacy, building investor confidence, as well as the introduction of innovative and technology driven solutions to stimulate investor participation,” he added. 