There was an uproar on the floor of the Senate yesterday during the screening of a former Minister of Transportation, Hon. Rotimi Amaechi as a ministerial nominee, following the decision of the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, to accord him a privilege exclusive to former members of the National Assembly. The screening of nominees forwarded to the upper legislative chamber by President Muhammadu Buhari had continued peacefully until it was the turn of Amaechi when agitation and noisy gestures enveloped the chamber. President of the Senate, Lawan had to step in to douse the tension generated by his earlier decision that Amaechi should not be asked questions by senators. Earlier, Lawan reminded his colleagues about the convention and policy of granting automatic confirmation to nominees who had been elected into the national or state assembly in the past. He said: “We have agreed on a policy on how we go about the screening, I just want to reiterate that policy and to say that we will extend the privilege to members of the legislature even at states level.” In spite of his explanation, intermittent shouts of disapproval were heard from senators each time Lawan tried to explain the issues. Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, who was recognized to speak on behalf of the minority parties, asked Lawan to permit the senators from Rivers State to ask Amaechi some questions but he rejected the request as he insisted that the policy and convention of “take a bow and go” to nominees with legislative backgrounds is valid. Also, former Gombe State Governor, Senator Danjuma Goje, disclosed that the rule never recognized those who had served in State Houses of Assembly as part of people to be given automatic confirmation, reading relevant section of the Senate Rule to support his observation. However, in a swift response to Goje’s point of order, Lawan said there is nothing wrong in granting automatic confirmation to former state lawmakers even if the Senate Rule did not allow it. As the Senate President tried to persuade Senators to allow Amaechi bow and go without going through the rigour of screening, more lawmakers shouted “No! No!! No!!! When asked to continue with his remarks, Abaribe informed the Senate President that all the Senators from the Minority Caucus including those from Rivers State had asked him to convey some messages to Amaechi.