Farmcrowdy Group, has invested about N4.38billion ( $12 million) in its agriculture value chain business in order to boost food security and availability in the country. Also, the company has disclosed the merger between Farmcrowdy and Farmgate Africa as one entity under the Farmcrowdy Group. The group explained that the merger was in line with its business strategy to ensure that it delivers optimum value chain to clients. The Group’s Chief Executive Officer and Founder of Farmcrowdy Group, Onyeka Akumah, made these known while briefing journalists on major updates of the company’s activities in Lagos. Akumah explained that the $12 million agricultural investment by the group had allowed it to venture into different parts of agriculture value chains and also empowered many local farmers to boost their agric productivity. Particularly, he explained that the group had cultivated 16,000 hectares of farmlands across maize, rice, soya beans, cassava, gingers plantation, venturing into livestock and poultry farming. He said: “We have invested about $12 million through the platform to put into the farms and that allows us to cultivate 16,000 hectares of farmlands across maize, rice, soya beans, cassava, ginger. Also, our livestock system sits around 2,000 cows, while we’ve raised 2.2 million chickens in our poultry farms. “I like to talk about the chickens because we started with about 500 chickens when we started Farm Crowdy and that was two years and seven months ago. “Interestingly, daily consumption of chickens in Nigeria is two million and we have cultivated 2.2 million chickens in the space of two years and seven months. This has shown lots of work towards feeding Nigerians daily.” He added that Lagos alone,consumes 6,000 cows per day and that was the official number from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. He explained that the firm was currently supplying 45 cows daily to three major eateries in Lagos alone. In addition, the chief executive officer stressed that the firm was supplying 30 per cent capacity of the eateries sectors’ cow meats production that cut across 10 eateries in Lagos alone.