Justice Nicholas Oweibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos has remanded a 56-year-old man, Opara Elisha, in prison for allegedly keeping 57.36 kilograms of Cannabis, also known as Indian hemp in his Ikotun, Lagos, home. The judge gave the order for Elisha’s prison remand following his arraignment over the alleged offence by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). He was docked on charges bordering on conspiracy, unlawful possession of the banned weed and illegal use of his house for keeping the narcotic. The defendant however denied the alleged offence following which the NDLEA’s lawyer, Abu Ibrahim, urged the court to remand him in prison pending the conclusion of trial, while also seeking for a trial date. Responding, defence lawyer, Mrs. V. I. Ekwegh, drew the court’s attention to a bail application she filed on her client’s behalf. She added that the prosecution has equally being served with a copy. After listening to the submissions of parties, Justice Oweibo, adjourned the matter to 14th August 2019, for the hearing of the defendant’s bail application. The judge however ordered that the defendant should be remanded in prison till then. The NDLEA has alleged that the defendant used his house situated at 4, Aina Street, Ikotun, Lagos, to warehouse 21.20kg of Indian hemp. He was also alleged to have allowed his house to be used by one, Ifeanyi, who is said to be at large, for storage of 36.14kg of the same substance. The offences are said to be contrary to and punishable under Sections 12 and 19 of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act, Cap N30, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. One of the counts against the defendant reads: “That you Opara Elisha on or about the 20th June, 2019 at No 4, Aina, Ikotun, Lagos being the occupier of the said premises, without lawful authority permitted and also caused the premises to be used by one, Ifeanyi for the purpose of processing of 36.14 Kilogrammes of Cannabis Sativa, a Narcotic drug and you thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 12 of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act, Cap N30, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004”.