One of the first actions taken by the new governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is the rearming of the Lagos State Transport Management Agency (LASTMA).  That action with the accompanying fines for traffic infractions have elicited varied reactions from Lagosians. For failure to wear seat beat while driving for instance, motorists are to pay a fine of N30,000; driving against traffic attracts a similar range of fine.  In some traffic offences, drivers are to pay as much as N200,000 while in others outright forfeiture of the vehicle is the punishment. Various lists have been thrown about since the new fine regime was introduced such that nobody is sure which is the authentic list. However, the fact that the government has not debunked or issued the authentic fine regime has in itself further exacerbated the situation.  The question that immediately arises is: why has the government not deemed it necessary to give the true position of things? To be sure, Lagos roads are in dire need of sanity.  The need to bring sanity to the roads cannot be emphasised enough. However, this effort must be done in a way that it conforms to the best standards and practices in the world. Quite often we are quick to refer to the United States of America, United Kingdom and other developed countries when it serves our purposes but conveniently look the other way when it doesn’t.  That is on the one hand. Is there any country in the Western world where traffic offences attract fines as high as N30,000 or N200,000 for traffic offences? Yet their transport and traffic control systems are sane. What method did they use? We don’t have to reinvent the wheel.  These fines are ludicrous and that is putting it mildly. It is these kinds of actions that make us a laughing stock. On the other hand, Lagos roads are in a state of total decrepitude and disrepair in many parts of the metropolis. Commuting to and from work has been a nightmare for many Lagosians.  They have borne this terrible pain in the last one or two years in hopes that with the new government in place, especially since the last one had become distracted, things will get better. But nothing has been done to fix the roads.  If the argument is that the time is too short for any meaningful repairs to be embarked upon, why is it that the time was not too short to roll out a punishing regime of fines for traffic offences? The question to ask therefore is which shoud come first: repairing roads or rolling out draconian fines for traffic offences?  Interestingly, if the former course of action was embarked upon first, it would be easy to carry Lagosians along; it would naturally engender a feeling of support and empathy for the government. But starting out with the latter course of action has tended to have not only alienated residents, it has left them with a feeling of being insignificant. For a longsuffering people who went out of their way to vote Sanwo- Olu as their next governor, this is not the quickest way to repay them.  Undoubtedly, certain tough decisions would have to be made in time but when people are carried along, when they see that their welfare is important, they are more than willing to cooperate with government.  The immediate feeling that regime of fines elicited in the minds of residents is that, this is about making money for government rather than sanitising our roads. So, we ask, is this about generating funds for government? Is LASTMA a money-making agency first and foremost?  Again, we must make it clear that these draconian fines will only succeed in making LASTMA officials rich without the desired effect of sanitising our roads. As experience has shown, when you impose an unreasonably high fines for simple traffic infractions, the enforcers are the main beneficiaries. Those who give and those who take bribes will find creative ways to negotiate and circumvent the system. On the roads designated as ‘one way,’ there are no markers to so indicate.  So, motorists can drive into such roads innocently only to be swopped upon by officials who hide in some obscure corners. We insist that government must place markers or signs on roads for drivers to know when they are driving against traffic.  There are so many roads begging for attention. The Lagos/Badagry Express Road, a major link to the west coast of Africa, the Oshodi/Apapa Express Road are two roads that should quickly engage the attention of Sanwo-Olu to give succour to longsuffering Lagosians. It is not enough to claim that these are federal roads. Finally, it should be pointed that the brutal reality of death sentence has not stopped heinous crimes from being committed.  A majority of Lagosians now use the seat belts. How was that achieved? It wasn’t by imposing ridiculous fines. Government and its agencies must learn to carry out long term enlightenment campaigns and creation of awareness rather than applying brute force.