 The absence of presiding judge and Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice Priscilla Ngozi Emehelu yesterday stalled trial of alleged killers of the Head of Nursing, Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Enugu.
The accused killers, Afam Ndu and two others who had earlier been re-arraigned by the State were billed to commence argument on their bail application through their counsel.
But the delay in the trial may not be unconnected with the arrest of more suspects in connection with the murder by the crack team of investigators from Inspector General of Police (IGP) office.
Husband of the late Dr. Amadi, Marcel who spoke to journalists at the court, disclosed that no fewer than five more suspects in the murder of his wife had been arrested.
The late nurse, a mother of two was assassinated by four gunmen while returning from work on March 21, in front of her house at No. 38, Enugu Ezike Street, Federal Housing Estate, Trans-Ekulu, Enugu.
Meanwhile, one of the accused persons in the murder, Ndu has sued the Registrar, Nursing & Midwifery Council of Nigeria (NMCN) before the State High Court.
The plaintiff in a suit that came by way of originating summon, is seeking an order of the court to compel the NMCN to register him with the Council as a general nurse and nurse educator having possessed PGD & Masters’ degrees in Education.
Other defendants in suit No. E/120/2019, were Mrs. Ifele Onuchukwu, Ndagi Alhassan, Dr. Jojo Onwukwe and Dr. Andrew Orovwigho.
The Plaintiff (Ndu), who in a separate suit, sued four Medical Doctors; Dr. Ubochi V.N, Dr. Unaogu N.N, Dr. Acho J.U and Dr. Ugwuonye O.K with Neuropsychiatric Hospital for libel said that the defendants allegedly petitioned against him to the Minister of State for Health, alleging that he (plaintiff) did not possess requisite qualifications to be employed as a Nurse Tutor in the School of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing of FNH.
Nursing & Midwifery Council of Nigeria had in letter dated 17th December, 2018, to the former MD/Medical Director, FNH, Dr. Jojo Ownukwe after an inspection of the School of Post Basic Psychiatric Nursing, recommended for reposting of the plaintiff out of the school for lack of professional qualification to teach in the school.