The family of late former governor of Kogi State, Abubakar Audu, has chosen to support one of his sons, Muhammed in the forthcoming Kogi State November 16 gubernatorial election.
Three of late Audu’s sons – Yahaya, Muhammed and Mona have indicated interest to contest in the forthcoming governorship election.
Mona first flagged off his political campaign with the launching of his political party of interest, YPP, in Lokoja. He subsequently indicated interest in chasing his ambition on the platform of the APC.
Yahaya on the other hand ran for the Kogi East senatorial seat in the last general elections before he decided to vie for the gubernatorial poll.
But, the former governo’s family, comprising His Royal Highness, Alhaji Tijani Audu; Alhaji Ibrahim Audu; Hajia Hawawo (Aya); Hajia Ramatu Audu; Hajia Nana Audu; Hajia Teina; and others, after its meetig at the weekend reached out to Yahaya to drop his ambition in favour of Muhammed who is the preferred candidate.
“This is a new dawn in Audu’s family, as the support is premised on the family’s desire to present a more politically mature member to carry on the sterling personality, legacy and grand social standing the Audu’s family is known for.
“Muhammed Audu, a grassroots politician has been an active member of the APC right from when Prince Abubakar Audu was alive, and has contributed immensely to the development of the party. He is also the rallying point of contact known to the political friends and allies of the late Prince Abubakar Audu. It is therefore uncharitable to allow Muhammed to lose all the goodwill and supports that are the necessary condiments in any successful political outing,” the family said.
By the resolution, Mona and Yahaya were enjoined by the family to support Muhammed for the sake of love, unity, progress and synergy.
According to a member of the family, who disclosed the resolution, the family believes that Muhammed will deliver dividends of democracy to the people of Kogi State if elected as governor.
He added that the late Prince Abubakar Audu left an indelible footprint, which made the family to insist that it cannot afford to have anything less than what he left behind.
“Muhammed, it is believed, is the perfect scion of Abubakar Audu that has the clout and weight capable of ensuring a successful political contest. His political acumen, unifying, all-embracing and humble spirits are also considered as a ground that birthed the family’s support.
“The family called on everyone to discountenance any rumour emanating from persons, clubs, parties and social groups, stating that there is division in Audu’s family. There is no division of any kind; the family has made its stand clear on the candidate it is presenting to the world,” the family said.