Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has honoured one of its personnel, Bashir Umar, who returned €37,000 to its owner, with double promotion. Accordingly, Umar, who was an aircraftman, has now been promoted to the rank of corporal, with a ‘Letter of Commendation’ from the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. He skipped the rank of lance corporal as a result of the special promotion. This followed his discovery of the money at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAIKIA), Kano, on July 7, and subsequent returned it to the owner. At the decoration ceremony at the NAF Headquarters in Abuja, the CAS said the conduct of the aircraftman was rare and unparalleled, considering his non-commissioned status. According to him, apart from approving the promotion, a aircraft was also dispatched to fly Umar and family from his Kano base to Abuja, for his decoration. He said: “The special promotion of ACM Bashir to the rank of corporal today, apart from serving as a reward for good conduct, is also to serve as motivation to other airmen/airwomen to aspire for such elevation. I am therefore delighted to see a cross-section of the gathering of members and friends of the Air Force family for an event that triggers happiness and self-actualisation. “As you must have realised by now, ACM Bashir has earned the rank of corporal by good conduct and as part of our desire to reward uncommon good deeds and excellence, we have chosen to have him decorated in front of his friends, peers and family. “Having said this, let me sincerely thank our invited guests for finding time to come and share in the joy of this occasion. My particular thanks go to the parents of ACM Bashir for the support they have been providing him all these years. He will continue to need this support, perhaps even more now than ever. I commend them for grooming him with the values that have earned him this accolade.” Umar is currently serving with the National Air Defence Corps (NADC), Ikeja, Lagos, and attached to Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport as part of the Mobile Air Defence Team and tasked with airfield protection.