T he President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), His Eminence, Dr Samson ‘Supo Ayokunle, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari  to ensure the release of Miss Leah Sharibu, Grace Taku and other hostages in the den of the Boko Haram terrorists.  Ayokunle made the plea in a statement made available to our correspondent through his Special Assistant (Media &Communications), Pastor Adebayo Oladeji.   According to the CAN president, the primary duty of any serious government is the security of lives and property of the governed.  “Any government that cannot guarantee this primary responsibility may lose the confidence of the citizen,” he emphasise.  He explained that CAN had watched a video  Boko Haram terrorists’ camp where Grace Taku, an aide worker of Action for Hunger, had appealed to the Federal Government, CAN, and other well-meaning people to secure her freedom and those of the other five victims, who were recently attacked and abducted by their captors recently.   “Boko Haram sect sometimes in April this year reportedly kidnapped a National Youth Service Corps member, Abraham Amuta and a cleric with Living Faith Church (Winners Chapel), identified as Pastor Moses Oyeleke in Borno State. We have not heard anything about their whereabouts.   “We have heard the prompt response made by the Federal government to the Save-Our-Soul cry of Grace and we join her in calling on President Muhammadu Buhari, and the security agencies, especially the Department of State Security to secure her freedom, and that of Leah Sharibu. Grace Taku has cried out on behalf of other hostages, like Amuta and Pastor Moses Oyeleke before getting too late.   We urge the Federal Government to expedite action toward the captives release, as in that of  Dapchi girls except Leah Sharibu. We believe strongly that Leah Sharibu is still alive, hale and hearty and she will and others must be set free from the captivity. Enough of paying lips service to the menace of security challenges in the country,” Ayokunle pleaded.   The CAN president also said that CAN have also been calling for a total overhauling of the security apparatus of the country; and we have also asked the developed nations to assist Nigeria in combating the challenges before the country becomes unbearable.   He added that it is not an exaggeration to say Nigeria roads are unsafe as kidnappers, terrorists, killer herdsmen and bandits are operating with impunity.   “How come these six aid workers were abducted and taken to the den of the captives without the awareness of the security agencies? What has become their intelligence gathering? Are we sure there are no saboteurs among our security agencies? Is there anything the government and the security agencies are doing to stop this menace that we don’t know to avert its negative effect as some notorious people taking law into their hands,” Ayokunle asked.   The CAN President therefore called on well-meaning people and agencies to join CAN in pleading with our government and the security agencies to wake up from their slumber before it will be too late.   “Our prayer is that the awesome God will come to the aid of this country. He will free all the captives and comfort all the bereaved of the killings in the country,” he said.