Barr. Nkechi Chukwueke is a former deputy governorship candidate of All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP). She also served as Special Adviser on Women and Ethnic Groups Mobilisation and Empowernment to ex-Governor Babatunde Fashola of Lagos State. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, she speaks on President Muhammadu Buhari’s ministerial list and women participation in politics  What is your take on President Muhammadu Buhari naming only seven women in his 43-man ministerial list released last week? It is not a good representation of women. Before now, we were clamouring for 35 per cent and we shifted it to 50 per cent, but as at today, it is about six per cent. That shows a lot of decline and it is below expectation by all standards. But I wouldn’t know his reason for doing that. But whatever the reasons are, I think there should be more women, who are qualified to do the job that men are going to do as ministers though I believe he has reason for choosing those he had chosen already. The ministerial list is out now and that has been put to rest. The next thing is board and ambassadorial appointments. Looking at that, I think President Buhari should make some corrections based on peoples complains and since women and interest groups are now voicing out, my opinion is that he should consider more women for ambassadorial and board appointments as well as appointing more women into departments, agencies and commissions. There are lots of women who are capable and willing to do the job. Are you saying that you are expecting the President to do more for women in terms of appointing them into public office? Sure. I am expecting government to do more for women by ensuring that more women are appointed as board members and Nigeria’s ambassadors to different countries. Would you regard President Buhari picking only seven women as ministers as a reflection of his true position regarding women inclusion in decision-making going by what he said few years ago when his wife, Aisha, criticized him, that the place of women is the kitchen and the other room? I wouldn’t want to conclude on that because I don’t know his thought and I don’t know what his mind is and his mindset. And again, everybody has the right to their belief or what they think. The ministerial nominees by President Buhari showed that he has chosen those whom he feels he can work with and can help him to deliver his change agenda to take Nigeria to the Next Level. So, if he feels he is more comfortable with men; as long as the job is done and is delivered; to me, that is the most important thing. But a lot of us would have preferred that he has more women, at least maybe 15 or so out of the 43 or even more. But like I said, what he thinks about women or his belief, religion or all of that, that is certain and there is nothing anybody can do about that. The most important thing is that let those he has chosen deliver and help him to actualize his dream. President Buhari is known all over the world as a disciplined and no nonsense person. So, those around him should not spoil that name for him. They should work with him. We want Nigeria to move forward. We want to see stable electricity power, water. The insecurity in Nigeria is never like before. There is so much stealing and all of that. So, the ministers should be his bodyguards and his foot soldiers. They should be his messengers. The President cannot be everywhere. He cannot do everything; he is not a witch. In as much as he takes responsibilities for whatever goes wrong in Nigeria, these are the people who will help him. What is your advice to the incoming ministers? My advice to them is not farfetched. Those of them who came back from the last administration; for instance my former boss, Babatunde Fashola, who presided over three ministries, should continue from where they stopped. I wouldn’t know whether he (Fashola) is going to get that again because the ministers are more in number now than what we had during Buhari’s first term, but he should continue from where he stopped. Even if it is only power he is able to achieve, Nigerians will live to remember him. Rotimi Amaechi, the former governor of Rivers State and the immediate past Minister of Transport, who also came back should intensify his efforts and be more committed to actualise his dream. He is hard working and he should make sure that the transport system works and should be subsidised. It shouldn’t be too expensive for the common man. Their four years will start counting immediately after the swearing in. So, by now they should be thinking of what to do. I am sure those who were just appointed as ministers were doing something before they came on board. Whatever they were doing, they should also be posted to their core areas of competence. You don’t take a medical doctor and give him transport; in as much it is an administrative work because those are professional areas. So, those people who have experience in their fields should be put in those areas where they are specialised. People like Uche Ogah who has knowledge of the oil and gas sector should go to the Ministry of Petroleum. He will not have any reason not to deliver and it goes to the other persons. Alhaji Lai Mohammed did well as Minister of Information and Culture, he should also continue in that line.  They should be more committed and help President Buhari to actualise his dream and it would be better for all of us. The President has done his beat and in the next four years, he should be relaxing and the rest would be left for Nigerians who are yet unborn. What we do today will determine what our children and grandchildren will inherit and how Nigeria will be. The ministers shouldn’t be there to feed themselves and their pockets. They should serve and be above board. What is your take on Nigeria not been able to implement the 35 per cent Affirmative Action and how can that be achieved? We are not going to achieve it by violence or taking to the street but we will keep working and advocating. I am sure one day, we will get that and supersede it. I am looking at a future where women would have 50 per cent in governance in all aspects of government; both in elective and appointments. One day another government will come and say I prefer to work with more women and by them the men might be grumbling that it is only women. When you start a fight or begin to agitate for something, sometimes you might not get it exactly when you want it. We are not happy that we have not been able to get the 35 per cent Affirmative Action, but I can tell you that between now and the next eight years, it shall be a thing of the past. We will get there and we will have female president and governor soon. So you believe that Nigeria will soon have a female president and governor? Sure. I have said it sometimes, what is wrong if I become president. What is wrong if any other women become a president, minister or governor? It is going to happen and even in the next administration, we are going to have a female governor. We have qualified and credible women that can lead us to that height.