President Muhammadu Buhari has given irregular migrants in the country six months ultimatum to register with the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). This came as the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), and the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) have begun integration of data, with a view to solving identity crises. The e-registration, which is free, is for aliens, who have spent a period exceeding 90 days in the country. President Muhammadu Buhari announced the “amnesty” period yesterday at the commissioning of the Migrant e-Registration, and Passport Application Processing Centre, at the Nigeria Immigration Service’s headquarters in Abuja. Buhari, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, noted that the establishment of the centres, was consistent with his administration’s determination to fight crime and criminality, while ensuring national development While the migrants’ eregistration will enable government access to statistics of migrants across the country, the Passport Application Processing Centre, on the other hand, aims to harness accurate data of citizens. Specifically, the migrants e-registration centre, after commissioning, will Flagoff the registration of all migrants in the country, in a bid to aid internal monitoring and integration Buhari said: “I am delighted to witness this occasion of the commissioning of the Migrant e-Registration and Passport Application Processing Centre, established by the Nigeria Immigration Service. These centres are significant to our drive for robust internal security and national development.” The President added: “Today’s (yesterday’s) event reflects Government’s deliberate commitment to harnessing accurate data of its citizens and statistics of migrants especially those who wish to stay beyond 90 days within the shores of Nigeria. “While the Migrant e- Registration Centre will collate and store data of non-Nigerians within our shore, the Passport Application Processing Centre on the other hand will provide improved issuance of passport and eliminate touting as well as corruption in line with this Government’s Policy on Ease of Doing Business. “Thus, promoting transparency and efficiency in service delivery. The Migrant e-Registration Centre after commissioning will flag off the e-registration of all migrants in Nigeria to aid internal monitoring and integration. “I, therefore, wish to assure the International Community that we are committed to promoting the fundamental human rights of migrants. However, we have the responsibility to know who lives among us and what he does. “It is on this note therefore that I am declaring a sixmonth amnesty period for irregular migrants already in the country to submit themselves to the Nigeria Immigration Service for the purpose of this registration which will be carried out without any payment or penalties.” The President further disclosed that efforts were being intensified towards enhancing the country’s identity management, with the approval of a comprehensive passport reform. Part of the reforms, Saturday Telegraph gathered, is to link the passport with an applicant’s natiinal identification number. Hear the President: “This administration has approved a comprehensive Passport Reform aimed at enhancing the country’s identity management among other things. “Accordingly, in line with our administration’s commitment to Local Content Act, I have directed that the production of passport be domesticated in Nigeria to build capacity of indigenous firms and enable seamless service delivery. This must be done with care so that the process is not interrupted “I am happy to note the progress being made in the successful integration of data between the Nigeria Immigration Service and the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) particularly as it was done in the spirit of achieving one data for each Nigerian.”