Osun state Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola yesterday said local government councils in his state operated freely without any undue interference from the state government. According to him, it would be unfair for any governor not to allow elected chairmen at the Local Government Councils to decide what they wanted in terms of human, capital and infrastructure development. Oyetola spoke when he hosted a delegation of the Local Government Project Monitoring Team from the Office of the Secretary to the Governor of the Federation (SGF) at the Government House in Osogbo. He said: “I believe in the functionality of local government administration. That is why we have given all the local governments and the Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) the independence to operate. “To me, it is unfair for any governor not to allow people at the local government to decide what they want. “We believe in transparency, accountability and probity that is why our administration has ensured that the resources of the local governments are not interfered with. “We have given our Councils free-hand to operate and decide their affairs. We don’t toy with the administration of our local government because we believe so much in development.” “So, we thank you for finding it necessary to visit our state and for seeing things yourselves. “We appreciate all your encomiums and commendations on our little efforts to develop the state, we are glad that our passion for grassroots development has been confirmed.” Leader of the delegation of the Department State/Local Government Affairs Political and Economic Office, office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Kayode Adegbayo, lauded Oyetola for taking leadership to the grassroots. He rated Osun high in the attention to the development of the grassroots, saying Osun had done remarkably well by all standards. Adegbayo said “what we have seen in terms of development across the local governments and LCDAs visited has shown that a round peg is in the round hole. “What we have seen shows that the governor is focused and he is not distracted by the litigation that was just put to rest few weeks ago by the Supreme Court.”