With barely a few weeks to the commencement of the major European leagues, the transfer activities have been buzzing of late, and one of the players that has been constantly in the news is Brazil’s forward, Neymar. Neymar made an acrimonious departure from Barcelona two seasons ago in a world record deal to multi-billionaire club Paris Saint-Germain but from all indications, he is nearing the exit door of the French capital side. To show his desire to leave the club, he declared the 6-1 loss suffered by the reigning Ligue 1 champions against Barcelona as the most memorable game of his career – just to spite his employees and ultimatelyfast track his exit. On that historic night at the Camp Nou home ground of the Catalans, Neymar, who has been facing a rape case in his native land masterminded a resurrection-like scenario with Barca scoring three goals in the last five minutes to upturn a 4-0 first-leg defeat of the Spanish giants for an astonishing 6-5 aggregate win. It is such games that Lionel Messi is always known to take full charge of, but Neymar was the star of the night as he ran ragged the PSG defence which led to his capture a few months later. While Barca has been pushing to re-sign him, Neymar has also been linked to a few clubs including Series A champions Juventus where he could form a deadly gang with the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Paulo Dybala, Matthijs De Ligt, Mario Mandzikic, Douglas Costa and some other stars. Though injury-prone as reflected in his miss of Brazil’s recent Copa America triumph, the 27-year-old immense talent can’t be argued against such that Barca are including two of their players and huge cash to facilitate his return. The former Santos WizKid is like an essential commodity as Barcelona’s eternal foes, Real Madrid, are also keen to land him with the club president Florentino Perez reportedly obsessed with the idea of the South American, a player he believes can fill the media and marketing gap left by legendary Portuguese Ronaldo a year ago. The PSG No 10 has caused tensions to rise within Real Madrid between the president and coach Zinedine Zidane. As if the Gareth Bale crisis was not enough, Neymar is ratcheting up the stress level. Perez knows Neymar’s situation in Paris is unsustainable and PSG will have to sell the player. Selling him to Madrid would be the lesser evil for PSG – who are still not on great terms with Barcelona. This summer is now or never for Madrid. If Neymar had to stay in Paris he would, in the summer of 2020, through FIFA’s compensation system, end up at Barca. To say Neymar is sick and tired of staying in France is an understatement an d to day’s pre-season match against Inter Milan would provide the former FIFA young player of the year the opportunity to show what he would bring to the team that eventually gets his signature and if he would still be plying his trade at PSG for at least one more season, then they can utilize him fully to achieve their dream of landing the prestigious Champions League trophy for the first time in their history.