 Registered architects have been charged not to breach the architects’ professional ethics, but to uplift professionalism in all their professional undertakings.
According to the President, Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON), Mr. Dipo Ajayi , while licensing hundreds of architects in Abuja, they should uphold integrity and professionalism, reminding them that everything was not money.
He urged the new architects to think out of the box to make impactful difference as the nation is going quietly going through a revolution, which is entrepreneurship,
“I congratulate all of you for going through all the processes. It is not how long you live, but, it is the fulfillment you derive in life. Don’t ever think that your licence can give you all you want in life, but, fulfilment should be your drive,” the ARCON president said.
Warning against misconduct, the ARCON president reminded the new entrants that the regulatory body has in place both Architects Investigative Panel (AIP) and Architects Disciplinary Tribunal (ADT) that would deal with cases of infraction without fear or favour.
ARCON’s immediate past president, Umaru Aliu, , who lamented over quackery, urged the architects to uplift the code of professional conduct and ethics.
He said: “We have the code of professional conduct and ethics to guide all our undertakings as architects. Unfortunately, we are where we are today due to lawlessness that has pervaded the land. Foreigners don’t come and take the job all by themselves. They hide behind those who front for them.”
He charged new architects to do the right always, memorise the code to avoid temptation.
Another senior architect, Umoru Karaye, who spoke on ‘Condition of Engagement, Charges and Agreement by Professional Architects”, urged the architects to familiarise themselves with the document, which he said was developed for the protection of architecture in Nigeria.
He urged them to be good ambassadors of the profession, adding that, those ahead of them in the profession would be available to assist them where and when possible.
Registrar of ARCON, Umar Murnai, who hinted that the regulatory had come up with Architects Projects Registration Number (APRN), to prevent incursion into their profession, tasked the newly inducted architects to vanguard the initiative.