My mother used to say: “If you throw stones at every dog that barks at you, you will not arrive at your destination in time”.  In life, there are lots of distractions; if you pay too much attention to them, you will be derailed and probably not arrive at your destination in life.  Distraction in life comes in many forms; such as distraction from family, friends, workplace amongst others. The ability to withstand its pressure and stay focused is key.  To focus means to concentrate or pay attention to something until the goal is achieved. Half-focus is no focus. When you focus fully, you get to understand the nitty-gritty of the subject or what you are focusing on.  For example, when you discover your purpose for living and routes to ply towards achieving this purpose, stay focused on it. Let us examine the following:  •Wrong Association. When you move with the wrong people, you will get the wrong results and at the end, arrive at the wrong place. Please note, wrong people are different from bad people. Wrong people here are persons who do not understand your dream or vision. And because they don’t understand it, they can’t help you get to your destination. For instance, if I am going to Abuja from Lagos by road, I need people who are going same route with me, not people going to Lake-chad or Cameroon. So people around you could be good quite alright but wrong for your destination. A guy can be nice, handsome and caring though but wrong to become your future husband. Some of your friends could be beautiful but could be wrong to belonging to your clique.  Focus helps you to decode. It helps you select the right persons needed in your journey of life.  •Focus helps you to shun critics. There are some persons whose major assignment is to get you distracted in life. They throw tantrums at you and even try to create a negative image of your person before others, all in a bid to getting your attention, so you won’t concentrate on your goal. However, focus helps you stay in tune to your goal and not get distracted. Focus helps you feed your goal and starve your distraction.  However, there is a difference between correction and criticism. The former is key. As much as you want to stay focused, be open to correction. In the multitude of counsel, there is safety.  •Focus helps you to be selective. Focus will give you a sense of direction at every particular point in time. You will know the battle you should fight and the ones to ignore with the help of focus. As earlier stated, focus helps you know the kind of friends to go along with, thereby helping you avoiding future disasters.  When you focus long enough on a thing, you will get results at the end. So, rather than trying to respond to everyone who talks at you, focus on the goal at hand; let the result do the talking. The problem is, we want to be right before everyone, always. We want people to always speak well of us. And the truth is, not everyone will accept you when you are just starting; not everyone will buy your product when you are just entering the market; not everyone will believe in what you carry on your inside. Not everyone will like you at first.  This is what happens when you stay focused on your goal or dream – At first, some people will spite you, insult you and disdain you. Later, they will start noticing you, paying attention on you, trying to figure out what you are up to. Then finally, they will copy you. They will start learning from you. You will become an inspiration.  Henry Wadsworth Longfellow said: “The heights by great men reached and kept were not attained by sudden flight, but they, while their companions slept, were toiling upward in the night”. While others are been distracted, great men stay focused on their dreams even throughout the nights.  I challenge you to stay focused. Have a great week 