TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE writes on the making of Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, who broke a 43 years jinx to emerge as the first female Secretary to the Oyo State Government  Since the creation of Oyo State on February 3, 1976 by the regime of General Murtala Muhammed up to the beginning of the incumbent administration in the state on May 29, 2019, the Pace Setter state has never had a woman as Secretary to the State Government (SSG).
But the 43 years jinx was broken last Friday, when Governor Seyi Makinde appointed the Country Implementation Lead of the Shell Business Operations (SBO), Nigeria, Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, as the SSG.
Adeosun’s appointment, without any iota of doubt, is a positive development and a plus to the demand by Nigerian women for gender balance and inclusiveness in politics and governance.
Her emergence as the first female SSG in Oyo State is commendable considering that Oyo State is one of the states in South-West zone and Nigeria at large that has never had a female as either deputy governor or SSG to compliment gender balance in executive position since the country’s return of civil rule on May 29, 1999.
Even at a point between 2003 and 2011, when in four states in the South-West – Ogun, Lagos, Osun and Ekiti – had women as deputy governors, Oyo State, which is regarded as Pacesetter State had males as governor and deputy governor. The position of Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly was also occupied for 12 consecutive years (1999 to 2011) by males; thereby making governance in the state a male-affair.
But the situation changed between 2011 and 2015, when the state produced its first female Speaker in the person of Hon. Monsurat Sunmonu. The Seventh Oyo State House of Assembly was formally inaugurated on June 11, 2011 with Sunmonu from Oyo East/Oyo West Constituency of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) emerging Speaker.
Between 2015 and 2019, the top four positions in the state – governor, deputy governor, speaker and SSG were all occupied by males. On May 29, 2019 Governor Makinde and his deputy, Engr. Raufu Olaniyan, were both sworn into office. Few days later, a 32-year old young man, Hon. Debo Ogundoyin, representing Ibarapa East Constituency on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was elected Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly.
But, Governor Makinde turned the tide in favour of women last Friday, by appointing the first female SSG in Oyo State. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Mr. Taiwo Adisa, which made the appointment public, quoted his principal as saying: “We are proud to attract Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, a talented technocrat at Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) to support me to drive our transformation agenda in order to realise the vision of embedding prosperity in Oyo State.”
The governor noted that the choice of Adeosun as the first female SSG in the history of the state is in line with “his firm belief in women’s inclusiveness and diversity in government.”
The statement reads in part: “Mrs. Adeosun as a licensed Pharmacist and a Chartered Human Resources Practitioner, who obtained a degree in Pharmacy and a Master’s degree in Business Administration (MBA) from the University of Benin in 1990 and 1997 respectively, will be bringing on board over 26 years of diverse multinational experience, which has seen her hold lead roles in SmithKline Beecham (GlaxoSmithKline) and the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC).
“Mrs. Adeosun has held multiple roles with local and global remits in the organisations. She hails from Ile Mato, Oranyan area in Ibadan North East Local Government of Oyo State. The new Oyo SSG is a full member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management (CIPM), Nigeria and a Chartered member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development (CIPD), United Kingdom. She has also held various Lead HR Roles with specialisation in areas such as Business partnering, Talent Management, and Employee Relations.
“As an active member of the CIPM, Mrs. Adeosun is involved in a foundation that is currently executing a programme for young leaders to imbibe leadership values of integrity, excellence, empathy and transformation. The programme is targeted at leaving a leadership legacy in Africa by strengthening capabilities in today’s leaders and building a pipeline of ready future leaders by 2035. Governor Makinde wished Mrs. Adeosun the best in her new assignment.”
Adeosun’s appointment is part of the fulfillment of Governor Makinde, pre-election promises to advance youth and women inclusion in government. And the governor within a month into his tenure as the number one citizen of the Pacesetter State has started delivering on his campaign promises as it relates to women inclusion in government.
Prior to Adeosun’s appointment, Governor Makinde announced Ms. Tara Adefope, a United Kingdom-trained lawyer as the newly appointed Director-General of the Oyo State Due Process Office. The governor also appointed a 25 year old Ms. Ololade Ajibola as Special Assistant on Special Duties.
With her wealth of experience and laudable achievements in the private sector, Adeosun emergence as SSG can be regarded as a square peg in a square hole and many believe she will bring her experience to bear to deliver good governance to the people of Oyo State.