Physiotherapy equipment worth millions of Naira were yesterday donated
to Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital, Awka Anambra State by the Rotary International Foundation.
This donation was made in partnership with the Rotary District 9125 and 9142 in Nigeria respectively.
Dr. Dennis Ekemezie, Assistant Governor, Rotary District 9142 Nigeria made the presentation on behalf of Rotary International Foundation yesterday in Awka.
The equipment donated included EMS and Ultrasound machine, Portable Stimulator, Bulb IRR, three IRR bulbs, Pulleys, Wooden Staircase with metal railings, Wooden wall Bar and one Recumbent Ergonetor.
Ekemezie said the gesture was product of partnership between Rotary International Foundation District 3170 India, Rotary International District 9125 Abuja and Rotary District 9142 Nigeria comprising seven states of Abia, Imo, Enugu, Anambra, Cross River, Akwa Ibom and Ebonyi.
He said the group saw the need to donate the equipment after its medical mission to Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital Amaku Awka last year.
“We expect that more hospital equipment are still coming because it was part of the commitment Rotary made after our last year medical mission to this place,” he said.
Ekemezie, who stood in for Mr. Sam Ukoh, the District Governor Rotary International District 9142 noted that the gesture was in line with the group’s humanitarian services.
He urged the management of the hospital to make effective use of the equipment to improve services to the public. Chief Medical Director of COOUTH, Dr. Basil Nwankwo Amaku-Awka after taking delivery of the equipment thanked Rotary International Foundation for numerous aids to the hospital.
“I have lost count of the intervention of Rotary in this hospital since I came on board as the CMD.
“Why I am saying this is a situation where free medical treatments were extended to more than 500 persons, it will be difficult to qualify the amount.
“In the process, some equipment were left behind for us including consumables and other materials and now Rotary today brought physiotherapy equipment,” he said.