“While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease” (Genesis 8:22).. “Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap” (Galatians 6:7). Whenever a man has sexual intercourse with a woman outside marriage, a seed has been sown into her. The woman equally receives the seed into her body. So, seed sowing and receiving cannot cease. However, God expects every man and woman that he created to sow only godly seeds, which must be sown into God-approved soil. “Yet, ye say, Wherefore? Because the Lord hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou has death treacherously; yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. And did not he make one? Yet hath he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That HE MIGHT SEEK A GODLY SEED. Therefore, take heed to your spirit and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth” (Malachi 2:14-15). When you are officially married and you have sexual intercourse with an opposite sex outside your marriage, you must understand that you are sowing into a wrong soil. If you are a woman, you are receiving a wrong seed. Each individual has body, soul and spirit. When you have sex with someone outside a covenanted marriage, you surrender your soul to the devil for destruction. You must understand this. It is an injury to spiritual relationship with your creator, the devil’s enemy. As you surrender your soul to him, he gives you a mark of dishonour as God’s glory and spirit departs from you until you repent, confess your sins and seek mercy. “But whoso commiteth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away” (Proverbs 6:32-33). The REPROACH in this scripture is that you lose sonship of God and in some cases, man faces a perception problem that can hardly be deleted except God’s mercy intervenes. God positioned a membrane of blood in the lady’s private part for a purpose. The hymen is a breakable tissue full of blood and it covers the opening of the vagina. This blood vessel is a covenant blockage, a sign and a token of covenant between the bearer and whoever plunges into her opening. The process of having a lady or girl deflowered is not a casual act of fun before God. God sees it as a serious covenant struck and confirmed by the blood, shed on that day the thing happens. By creating the hymen, God expects that whoever plunges into the woman shall only be able to do so by making a blood covenant to be joined to her for the rest of his life, from that point onward. There is a spiritual bonding, a supernatural process that takes place at that point where the hymen breaks. There is a blood covenant. So, what happens the first time a lady has sex, is an immersion and a bathing of the man with her hymen blood to initiate a covenant that is highly recognized in the spirit realm of both light and darkness. The first time this happens marks her opening day covenant ceremony and each subsequent experience goes on to further refresh or strengthen that covenant or establish another version of it with another person. Many ladies have washed unfortunate and accursed guys with that hymen-blood in sexual activity. Some have had it with demon-possessed men. Some others have struck such precious covenants, using candlesticks as they exer-cised sex with it. If only they knew, many a girl who allowed themselves to be deflowered in a bid to be among the so-called ‘big girls’ would never have done so. “What! Know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot (in sexual activity) is one body? For two, saith he, shall be one flesh. But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit”. (1st Corinthians 6:16-17 KJV). This explains why many females who are not yet married have their spiritual composition already shattered and imbalanced because they have mingled their souls with that of different men. Sexual intercourse is a spiritual matter. In this case, there is need for deliverance. Many have failed to do this and the reward is marital crisis. The case is even worse for guys, including the rapists, who require severe cleansing by ONLY the blood of Jesus Christ. Sexual perversion is an offer from the devil, the god of pre-marital sex. His reward is destruction (Numbers 25:1-3, 31:13-16). Reading this piece might just be your last opportunity to choose whose instructions you will comply with-the Almighty God or the god of sexual pervasion? “I beseech you therefore, brethren by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service” (Roman 12:1). Your service to God will only be reasonable when you drop sexual immorality. “Now, the body is not for sexual immorality but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body” (1st Corinthians 6:13b).