Asecurity guard, Joshua Aodofa Tyosula, a graduate of University of Agriculture, Benue State, has accused his company, Fortune Security Company, of sacking him because he asked for his salary. Tyosula said that he joined the security company because after his National Youths Service Corps (NYSC), he couldn’t secure a white-collar job. He lives at Ikorodu area of Lagos State, while his primary place of assignment was on Banana Island, Lagos.  According to Tyosula, to ensure he meets up with his duty and also because he didn’t have enough money, used to sleep in uncompleted buildings on the Lagos Island. But at the end of the fourth month, for reasons he couldn’t fathom, the company started dragging its feet with salary payment. Tired of waiting, Tyosula went to the administrative officer to demand his salary. He explained that he was waiting for them to explain, but rather, they handed him a sack letter for having the effrontery to demand his salary. Tyosula said: “I joined the security guard company in January 2019, after I had stayed at home for long without securing a job. Unfortunately, I was sacked because I demanded my salary. I was posted to a company somewhere at Victoria Island, where I worked both at night and morning on a shift. Things ran smoothly. But what I noticed that the company always owed its workers. “When March ended, I was paid. But when April ended, I wasn’t paid. I waited endlessly. When the supervisor came to my beat, I complained to him about my April salary. I told him that I had not been paid for April.” Tyosula said that when the supervisor got back to the head office, he reported him. When he got to his beat the following day, he received a missive, ordering him to come to the head office. He said: “When I got to the head office, the management asked why I was complaining over my salary. I told them I have aged parents at home, who I wanted to send money to in the village. Before I knew what was happening, I was redeployed to another beat. Some of my colleagues were afraid to complain over the manner they were being treated. I believe some of them are not educated. They used their first leaving certificates to get the security guard employment. On May 10, I received my April salary alert. But to my shock, I was disengaged the same day. But my grouse with them was that they should have paid me the 10 days I worked. “When I protested to the management, demanding that they should pay me the 10 days I worked, I was told to go and do whatever I wanted. I was angry. I saw what they did to me as an embarrassment and a slap on my face.” When our correspondent contacted the company on phone number 08150791788, a man picked. When our correspondent intimated him of the issue, he promised to get back to our correspondent. But after two weeks, he was yet to get back to our correspondent.