A lot have been said about the Makoko community, a slum in Lagos State, where residents live in suspended shanties built on water. However, Sunday Telegraph’s investigation revealed that apart from waterfront settlement of Makoko community, where people live on water, a certain percentage of the settlers dwell on solid land. CHIJIOKE IREMEKA reports that the residents defecate in water and depend on the same water for their domestic needs  M akoko Community, Yaba Local Council Development Area, Lagos means different things to different people. To some, it is only a body of water which can be seen while travelling on the Third Mainland Bridge. Others see it as an island.   However, Sunday Telegraph investigations revealed otherwise as only a small fraction of the community is built on water – Floating community.   Part of the myth is that only a single school is cited in the community, but Sunday Telegraph also observed that there are a number of other schools in the community including public and private schools though there is the need for more serious schools to be established in the area to reduce the rate of illiteracy among the dwellers.   This also necessitated the construction of first ever floating school in the area to enable a more number of children the opportunity of going to school and thereby promoting literacy among the residents of the community.   The floating schools, which are sponsored by non – governmental organizations and the Yaba Local development Council, make waves across the shores of Nigeria.   Makoko slum is considered the Venice of Africa due to its construction on the Laos Lagoon requiring canoes for transportation. A third of Makoko’s community is constructed on stilts above Lagos Lagoon. The community is located across the Third Mainland Bridge in the coastal mainland of Lagos.   According to one of the leaders of the community, Ovie Erukhewe, the popular community comprises of six distinct villages – Oko Agbon, Adogbo, Migbewhe, Yanshiwhe, Sogunro and Apollo which spread across land and water.   He noted that Makoko is an interesting slum lying on water with a beehive of activities throughout the year. The Community, a fishing village, came into being over a hundred years ago when fishermen from Benin settled in the reclaimed Lagoon from debris on the edge of the Atlantic Ocean.   Today, he stated, Makoko slum is home to over 100,000 residents, majority of whom are migrants from West African countries trying to make a living in Nigeria, saying that residents in Makoko depend mainly on fishing as the main economic activity.   Sunday Telegraph observed that since the community came into existence, many people as well as NGOs are flocking the community due to its floating nature and other unique features.   The most captivating attraction of the slum is the floating school which was designed by a team of architects who built it from plastic barrels that have space for classrooms as well as a playground.   In 2013, a Nigerian architect, Kunle Adeyemi of NLÉ proposed to transform the water slum status of the Makoko waterfront community to a floating island by creating a functional building prototype.   He collaborated with non Nigerian Non-Governmental Organisations including an Abuja-based Heinrich Boll Foundation, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Federal Ministry of Environment Africa Adaptation Programme, Yaba Local Council Development Area (LCDA) and Makoko Waterfront Community to execute the project.   According to the then Public Relations Officer of the Germany origin Heinrich Boll Foundation, Armsfree Ajanaku, residents of Makoko comprise of immigrants from Benin and Togo, who settled in the reclaimed Lagoon in the late 18th century.   Economically, he stated, Makoko Lagoon was the main supplier of tilapia fish in Lagos and neighbouring countries, saying that the residents have found ways through which they coexist with their natural habitat even when it poses environmental hazards to their existence.   “Majority of all structures in Makoko rest on wooden stilts constructed from hardwood driven deep into the waterbed. Each household in Makoko owns a canoe which is used for transportation around the village. Hence Makoko is village in the water,” he added.   Sunday Telegraph learnt that children learn to paddle canoes when they are five years of age since it is one of the major skills required to survive in the slum.   The waterways in Makoko are a beehive of activities as the residents move around conducting business activities in their canoes, making it the most interesting slum in Africa.   Though many people are interested in this community and seeking ways to improve its living conditions, the reason the community has become a Mecca of a sort in Lagos, yet Makoko is, in itself, a threat to human existence due to its dilapidated structures.   One of the greatest problem of the residents of this community is lack of government presence in the community and the consequent none availability of any form of social amenities.   The residents do almost everything on their own which has also attracted philanthropists, NGOs and sympathizers to the community with the aim to alleviate their deplorable conditions.   “For decades, the inhabitants have had no access to infrastructure ranging from clean drinking water, electricity, and waste disposal, which have created severe environmental hazards to the residents and surrounding aquatic life,” said an environmentalist, Jimmy Peters.   He said that the communal latrines are shared amongst households and the wastewater flows straight into the water they live on, saying that the oily black water resulting from increased waste disposal over the years no longer supports marine life.   However, “efforts by the government to displace the people in the past years have been futile as it creates a bigger problem of relocating the homeless people. Residents believe that Makoko is their only culture and should be preserved by the government,” he added.   Recall that in July 2012, Lagos State government under then governor Babatunde Fashola, ordered that the stilts on the Iwaya/Makoko waterfront be demolished and dozens of stilts were demolished within 72 hours of notice to the residents.   Sunday Telegraph learnt that nearly 3,000 people lost their homes to the demolition exercise. Two months after the partial demolition, a SERAC housing affiliate known as the Urban Spaces Innovation developed a regeneration plan for Makoko that would bring the community together with academics, non-profits, and international consultants.   The plan was submitted to the Lagos State Ministry of Urban and Physical Planning in January 2014. Its population is considered to be 85,840; however, the area was not officially counted as part of the 2006 Census and the population has been estimated to be much higher.   Also, during Sunday Telegraph’s visit to the community where almost all the women are either fisherwomen or fish mongers, petty traders, foods vendors  as well as fashion designers, it was discovered that these residents like their environment and consider their  it as their friends, hence they said ‘this our home.’   While residents in other parts of the state spend money molding blocks to build their houses, these people do not have such time building houses rather they use thick and strong timber to build their houses on the water.   Ironically, their attitude of defecating in the water where they fish and get their sea foods, they eat their own fecal waste. For the jobless ones, who shun fishing and other economic activities, they sat in certain corners of the community smoking Indian hemp and indulge in alcoholism.   One of the canoes paddlers who spoke to Sunday Telegraph on the condition of the area, Edafe Iriruga, said he didn’t have the opportunity to go to school due to his fishing   profession which he started with his father as a child.  The 13 years old, said his environment made him a fisherman as that is the only job he saw his parents and other children in the community do.   “I enjoy fishing because I normally cash fish in the water and sell them to the women who sell fresh fish in the market. Some of them roast the fish and sell later,” he said.  “I also learnt how to swim in this environment. I can swim any water. I was born here and I grow like. In this area, everybody knows how to swim and we play in the water. If you don’t know how to swim you cannot fish in big water,” he added.  For another fisherwoman seen off-loading her catch in a wooden basket, Aisha Musa, every family has a canoe with which they conduct themselves or transport themselves round the community as they do not live on the land.   “Here, every child knows how to paddle a canoe, if not he will stay at home all the year round and will not go to school. Our children paddle canoe to the school the way children ride bicycles to the school,” she said.   She noted that fishing is their major economic activity apart from petty trading and craftsmanship. “Our people where among the people that build that floating school on the other side,” she added.  Prior to the commencement of the floating school project, the children of Makoko had access to primary schools which were inadequate, built on reclaimed land, which were frequently threatened by recurrent flooding.  According to Executive Director, Heinrich, Christine K., Makoko floating school comprises alternative sustainable buildings and structures designed to adapt to the resident communities’ aquatic lifestyle.  She noted that the floating school utilizes local materials such as bamboo, timber and resources to produce architecture that applies to the physical, social needs of people and reflects the culture of the community.   “Wood is used as the major material for the structure, support and finishing of school building. The form of the school building is a triangular A-Frame section with about 1,000-square-foot play area.   “The classrooms are located on the second tier and are partially enclosed with adjustable louvered slats. The classrooms are also surrounded by spatial public greenery. There is a playground below the classroom while the roof contains an additional open air classroom,” she said.   She noted that the classroom spaces can be used for communal functions, especially during out-of-school hours, saying sustainable features include application of solar cells to the roof, rainwater catchment systems and composting toilets.   Sunday Telegraph learnt that the structure is also designed to use about 250 plastic barrels to float on the waters and be naturally ventilated and aerated. There are considerations to use the building prototype to provide additional infrastructure for the community including an entertainment center, a community hub and health clinics.   The floating school design won the 2013 AR+D award for emerging architecture and was shortlisted for the London Design Museum’s 2014 Design of the Year award. It also received a nomination for the 2015 International Award for Public Art.   On June 7, 2016, it was learnt that the Makoko Floating school structure was adversely affected by heavy rain, and collapsed. No casualty was recorded as the students and teachers had relocated three months earlier due to safety concerns.   However, in 2016, a second iteration of the Makoko Floating School, called the Makoko Floating School II (MFS II), was unveiled at the Venice Architectural Biennale.   This updated version was designed to be a prefabricated, rapid-assembly version of the original. It was awarded the Silver Lion prize, recognised as a powerful demonstration, be it in Lagos in Venice, that architecture, at once iconic and pragmatic, can amplify the importance of education.   A third iteration of the Makoko Floating School (MFS III), was displayed in 2018. Located in Bruges, Belgium, MFS III aims to redesign the floating school to be more structurally sound, claiming a 25 year life span.   “One of the major benefits of this water is that it developed the sense of craftsmanship in our people. Because of the water, our people are good in lumbering. We float logs on the water until it get to our milling area where we can bring it out and mail them,” said Layinka Ogunbumi, one of the millers on the dry part of the community.   He continued: “We have all types of roofing timber and their sizes. If you want to buy timber and come to this place you will find them cheaper because the cost of transportation is not much here. This a good place to be but you can’t compare it with other places that have drinking waters.   “We buy our drinking water from tankers and private tanks. We can’t boast of any good health centre apart from few private ones.”    