It was a black Sunday for the people of Okokolo in Agatu Local Government Area of Benue State as gunmen yesterday invaded Abugbe community and killed scores of people.
Among those killed were a son of a pastor in the area and a retired soldier. The gunmen, who residents described as hired militants, also set ablaze several houses. This rendered hordes of residents homeless. The attack came when worshippers were already in their various places of worship. Two communities in the area, Agbda and Adugbe, it was learnt, had been at war but had a week ago agreed on a cease-fire at a peace meeting. At the meeting, a peace agreement was signed between the warring sides aimed at putting a permanent end to the crisis.
The two sides promised to remain peaceful until the latest attack. Those killed at Okokolo included Mr. Baba Odoje, Mr. Shaidu Magaji (a retired military man), Mr. Oloche Obiabo (Kaddo), Mr. Adehi Imaikwu, Mr. Maji Baba, Ngbede Ibrahim (Ejeh-Akpabana’s son), Bello-Gene-Galih, Mr. Ekoja (Olundo’s husband), Adams Dogara (Pastor Dogara’s son), the late Francis Idu’s wife and her two children (names not given). Bodies of some victims were yet to be found as at press time, while several others, including Mrs. Mary Adakonye, a health worker, sustained gunshot wounds and have been rushed to hospitals for medical attention. The Chairman, Caretaker Committee of Agatu Local Government Area, Hon. Usman Alilu, said soldiers had been deployed in the area to deal with the attackers. He said: “We are on top of the situation now and we won’t relent until the perpetrators are apprehended.” Also, the state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who hails from the area, Hon. John Ngbede, said he was bitter about the unfortunate situation. Ngbede said he had informed the caretaker chairman to make sure the soldiers pick everyone involved in the attack.
He said: “Even if it is a stone you find there, don’t spare anyone, pick them up and deal with them mercilessly. “The situation, if not properly handled, would lead to the total destruction of the entire Agatu. Then there may be no place to call Agatu in the nearest future; God forbid anyway. This is my candid advice to our leaders. “I appreciate all those with genuine intentions to bring peace to the area, but those instigating crisis in the area shall know no peace for the rest of their lives.” 