T he Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Transportation, Alhaji Sabiu Zakari and the Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, are to speak at the 2019 edition of MMS Transport Leadership Lecture/Awards; slated to hold in Lagos on Tuesday. The event, which has the theme: theme; “Leadership In A ‘Next Level’ Democracy: Striking A Positive Balance In Transport Sector;” is organised by Kings Communications Limited.   The former President of African Ship-owners Association (ASA), Barr. Temisan Omatseye will chair the event while the Secretary-General, Abuja MoU on Port State Control, Barr. Mfon Usoro slated to deliver the lead paper at the summit.   Speaking last week ahead of the event, Omatseye said: “Transportation isn’t a ministry you just allow anyone to manage, especially the maritime sector which should be the most significant after oil. Oil cannot even move without the maritime sector.” According to him, the upcoming event would provide a good opportunity for transport veterans to converge and proffer solutions to the numerous challenges facing the nation’s transport sector.   The event would also feature panel session that will dissect “Optimising Digitalisation and Connectivity in Transport Sector” to upscale leadership performance for improved contribution of the transport sector to the growth of the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP).   The panel sessions would be moderated by the Chairman, Ports Consultative Forum, Otunba Kunle Folarin, and the former Director General of National Maritime Authority (NMA) Mr. John Egesi. The panelists include: Barr. (Mrs.) Margaret Orakwusi, Chairman, Ship Owners’ Forum; Dr. Mkgeorge Onyung, President, Ship-Owners Association of Nigeria (SOAN), and Mr. Paul Ndibe, Director-General, Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (CILT) Nigeria.   Others are: Chief Cajetan Agu, Director, Consumer Affairs, Nigerian Shippers’ Council; Mr. Chris Aligbe, CEO, Belujane Konzult; Captain John Ojikutu, Chief Executive of Centurion Security & Secretary General, Aviation Safety Roundtable Initiative (ASRTI), and Engr. Sambo Muazu, General Manager, Lagos Area Office, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA).   Also in the panel are: Princess Vicky Haastrup, Executive Vice Chairman, ENL Consortium; Prince Olayiwola Shittu, former President, Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA); Mrs. Folake Soji-George, Co-Director, Al-Hadiat Nigeria Limited; Dr. Obiora Madu, Director-General, African Centre for Supply Chain (ACSC); Mr. Charles Akhigbe, Chairman, Implementation Committee for Edo Inland Container Depot, and Mr. Muda Yusuf, Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI).