The Abubakar Atiku support group, Articulated, has urged President Mohammed Buhari’s advisers  to leave the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), Atiku Abubakar alone but face the security and economic issues that demand critical attention in the country. The group regretted that at this critical moment in the nation, it sounds unreasonable for the president’s aides to be “jittery about what Atiku says, does and/or even imagine, instead of addressing pressing national issues.” The Director General of Atikulated Agenda Worldwide, Chief Emeka C. Kalu,  in a statement  advised presidential spokesman, Mr. Femi Adesina to stop chasing shadows and ensure his principal pays more attention to the yearnings of the masses whose security is in danger and are gradually losing confidence in the economy. Kalu, who was reacting to a recent statement by Mr. Adeshina also said that it was unfortunate that out of every patriotic and concerned points raised by the statements from Alhaji Atiku, the former found pleasure in picking and thematically analysing only a section to score cheap political point, forgetting that this is not a popularity contest, but a crusade on the need to salvage what is left of the nation. “It thrives on insincerity for Adesina to read meaning into a simple statement in part while overlooking the whole text which is a sign of the attempt to score cheap political goal out of a simple and straightforward statement. “Having used and continued to use all means to cling unto power at the detriment of everybody, one would’ve expected that government could at least give respite to Atiku who has continued to maintain all manners of decorum and decency while pursuing justice. “Atiku is a true democrat that believes in the rule of law, but nobody should misstate his gentle stride as a sign of cowardice, as the nation’s peace would have been disturbed if Buhari has lost t he election,” he said. He called on government to address such issues as restructuring, the controversy and threatening issue of RUGA, the dwindling economy, and prayer for better welfare of Nigerians. “PANDEF, Afanifere, Ohaneze, are getting louder over restructuring because Nigeria seems to be at a standstill. The issue of Shiite Muslim’s daily protest in Abuja is getting more disturbing. Just today, and in previous days, we’ve had the issues of angry people occupying the express roads, including herdsmen insisting on “NO RUGA”