A head of the planned recapitalisation in Nigeria’s insurance sector, foreign investors have started taking strategic positions by partnering local underwriters through equity acquisitions.   Reinforcing this last week, the management of Nigeria’s foremost underwriting firm, Royal Exchange Plc. announced that a German firm, InsuResilience Investment Fund (IIF), had acquired 39.25 per cent stake in one of its subsidiaries, Royal Exchange General Insurance Company (REGIC).   With the acquisition, IIF established by German Development Bank (KfW) and managed by Swiss based Impact Investment Manager, BlueOrchard Finance Investment Limited (“BlueOrchard”), is injecting a total of N3.6 billion into Regic. The acquisition brings to two the number of foreign interests into the local sector in one year.  The current spate of alliance is expected to ease National Insurance Commission’s (NAICOM) regulatory order for the underwriters to shore up their capital from as little as N2 billion to N20 billion, depending on the segment they operate among Life, non-Life, Composite or Reinsurance.   Last year, Allianz Group took over Ensure, as it acquired 98 per cent stake from its core shareholder, Greenoaks Global Holdings Ltd. (GGH).   The acquisition was propelled by Allianz Group views of Africa as one of the important future growth markets as well as seeing Nigeria as one of fastest growing country with a population of more than 180 million citizens.   While sealing the deal, the Regional CEO, Africa of Allianz SE, Coenraad Vrolijk, had described  Nigeria as “one of the most dynamic economies in Africa. The acquisition of Ensure Insurance Plc gives us full access to this key insurance market in Africa and marks a major milestone for Allianz’s long-term growth strategy on the continent,” he said. “This new step of development will allow us to offer the best products and services to Nigerian customers in both personal and commercial lines. In addition, as we grow our excellent African teams, we are laying particular emphasis on hiring and developing local talent.”   As one of the leading non-life insurance companies operating in the insurance market in the country and having a strong presence in the agric-insurance space through its partnerships with the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk-Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) and some state governments, the investment by the IIF in REGIC is expected to have a huge impact on the company’s presence in the agric-insurance space to enable it increase its presence even further.   The proceeds of the investment will help REGIC to spur growth by increasing its risk capital and supporting its underwriting capacity in agriculture, thereby extending its outreach to low income farmers.   Prior to the current development, France’s AXA had acquired 77 per cent interest in Mansard Insurance for €198 million.   Besides AXA, Old Mutual had acquired Oceanic Insurance, Sanlam of South Africa and bought into (FBN Life Assurance), NSIA had a deal with ADIC Insurance. Greenoaks Global Holdings had also bought into (Union Assurance) before eventual emergence of Allianz into the scene that changed its identity from Ensure to Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc.   Also, Axa had disposed of 8.9 billion euros ($9.7 billion) of assets in developed markets since 2010 to invest in faster-growing nations, including African markets. It also completed the purchase of a 7.2 per cent stake in pan-African reinsurer, Africa Re, which is headquartered in Nigeria for $61 million.   The Head of Axa Global Property and Casualty Business, Jean-Laurent Granier, while making reference to the previous election process, said: “We think that political stability and the respect of democratic rules in this vote can only consolidate development potential in Nigeria and other African countries.   “We are not making a political interpretation of this outcome,” he said. “This reinforces and confirms our will to grow in Nigeria.”   Speaking on the importance of REGIC’s strategic investment, Managing Director, Benjamin Agili, said: “With this investment, REGIC will be able to achieve its key objective of reaching out to over 1million farmers within the next five (5) years, offering the best-of-bred agric-insurnace services to enable them increase their productivity, make Nigeria more self-reliant in food production, which impacts the economy with growth of our GDP and the agro-allied economy.  