A University of Ibadan (UI) don and the Assistant Coordinator of University of Ibadan Professional Teaching Practice Students 2019 of the Faculty of Education, Dr. Gbadamosi Tolulope Victoria has described the ‘Blackboard to Whiteboard Initiative’ as modern and worth emulating in the delivery of qualitative and effective teaching. She disclosed this during the commissioning of the ‘Blackboard to Whiteboard Initiative’ at Community High School (Humani Alaga High School), Sango, Ibadan, which was facilitated by University of Ibadan Professional Practice Students -2019 in partnership with The Hope For Us Charity, a non-governmental organisation (NGO). While commissioning the project, Gbadamosi noted that the project was borne out of knowledge acquired to impact on lives of the students and community at large. The don, who added that the project was a demonstration and showcasing that learning has gone beyond classroom level, further stressed that the teachers in training had demonstrated that success is not about how much money you make, it is about the difference you make in people’s lives. Gbadamosi, however, recalled that the teachers in training had been taught in their course “Economics Methodology,” where she taught them service learning, which allows students to learn while impacting the society. She also reiterated that learning should not stop at the four walls of the classrooms, insisting that it is what you translate learning into that shows whether learning has taken place or not . “It is noteworthy that any reform in education that fails to be tailored towards needs of the society will not bring about the desired outcomes, thus there is need for the university to incorporate service into its curriculum in order to produce democratic citizenry. Meanwhile, on behalf of The Hope For Us Charity, the non-governmental organisation partnering the students on the project, Mr. Timothy Morenikeji as well as the student-teachers, the initiators of the project, including Timothy Akujobi and Olusesi Aliu, the President of the National Union of Education Students Association (NEUSA) underscored the need for schools to embrace modern technology, as the use of blackboard for classroom teaching is not only old, it is also backward. In his remarks, the former Dean of Faculty of Education of the university, Prof. Clement Olusegun Kolawole described the initiative as novel, and commended the student-teachers for the initiative. At the event were the Principal of the benefiting school, Mrs. Iyabo Olayiwola; the Vice-Principal, Mrs. Akindele, teachers and students, among other guests.