VoguePay Limited, an international online payment gateway, has emerged the African Online Payment Platform of the year at the 9th edition of the African Achievers Award 2019 at House of Commons, Palace of Westminster, United Kingdom. The African Achievers Awards has consistently honoured great Africans in Leadership, Young Achievers,          Community Builders to Captains of Industries across the continent. The Awards ceremony according to the statement, has fast become established as one of the biggest gatherings of influential and global African Achievers on the continent. Amongst other awardees, VoguePay received the award as the African Online Payment Platform of the year for the second time. Now in its 9th Edition, this year’s African Achievers Award ceremony held at the United Kingdom House of Commons and was hosted by Rt. Hon. Diane Abbott (current Shadow Home Secretary, United Kingdom), chaired by Susan Fajana Thomas; former Mayor of the London Borough of Hackney. While acknowledging the award, VoguePay’s  CEO & Co-founder, Mr. Michael Simeon reiterated company’s commitment to excellence and helping businesses solve cross border payment challenges. He also noted that “VoguePay has supported over 100,000 business across the globe with a cheaper, safer and more accessible cross-currency payments solution for businesses and consumers internationally,” he said. “Since launch in 2012, VoguePay now has operational offices in Nigeria, Estonia, Bahrain, and the UK with expansion plans to other regions”. Other award winners include media personality Linda Ikeji, ace footballer Kanu Nwankwo and leading global leaders like Solomon Jamiru Esq. (the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sierra Leone), Mamadou Diallo (Former Prime Minister of Guinea), and many other Africans achievers who will be honoured for their works and contributions towards the growth and advancement of the African Continent. The African Achievers Award past honourees include Arch. Bishop Desmond Tutu; Nelson Mandela Foundation;   H.E. Jakaya Kikwete former President Republic of Tanzania; Bill and Melinda Gate Foundation; Kofi Annan Foundation; Justina Mutale Foundation; Dr. Justina Mutale, The African Development Bank (AFDB); Sinach, a Nigerian International Gospel artiste; Dr Mathews Phosa, Moggesukkel Foundation; H.E Dr Dlamini Zuma, former Chairperson of the African Union Commission; Dr. Josephine Ojiambo, Commonwealth Deputy Secretary-General and others.