Former Super Eagles midfielder Etim Esin told AJIBADE OLUSESAN in this interview that the national team does not need captain Mikel Obi to excel at the forthcoming African cup of Nations in Egypt.  Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr has said he is not certain his captain, Mikel Obi, will make the team to the next African Cup of Nations because the Middlesbrough midfielder hasn’t shown commitment to be part of the squad. Do you think the three-time African champions will miss the former Chelsea man if he doesn’t make the cut?
Mikel has done very well for the national team and I think we should have found a replacement for him if we are serious with our football. It’s is a shame that we are talking about missing a player who doesn’t have anything to prove anymore; he has won the Nations Cup, he has played in the World Cup, he is on his way to retirement, so that zeal is not there anymore. His position can be offered to those coming behind, it is not compulsory we take him to the Nations Cup this year. Rohr did admit that the team is indeed missing Mikel’s leadership skill although they qualified for the AFCON 2019 without his contribution…
Rohr may have his point there because you can’t buy the experience somebody like Mikel can bring to the team. But for me, I don’t think that is necessary in this case because this is a Nations Cup where stars are birthed; don’t be surprised that even without the likes of Mikel other youngsters can pop up and we will start celebrating them. We need players who are hungry; those who want to make their mark. Experience and leadership are good but when the hunger and passion are not there, then they’re useless. Nigeria has produced top class players who have made number 10 role admirable. Players like yourself, Henry Nwosu, Austin Okocha wore the revered jersey with guile and gusto; do you think Mikel has also done justice to that shirt in his time with the Eagles?
Mikel is not creative; if we are talking about creativity, in all honesty, I don’t think he belongs to that class although he has stepped up his game, he’s played for top teams but he isn’t creative enough as number 10. Somebody who wears that shirt must be able to make things happen on the pitch, scoring goals too but Mikel isn’t that player. I am not saying he’s not a good player, the number of things he has achieved as a player shows he’s not bad but he doesn’t have that spark in the middle of the park. Somebody must have inspired him to wear the number 10; when I was growing up I had a dream of wearing that jersey because Henry Nwosu inspired me and I think maybe a player like Austin Okocha must have inspired him. Alex Iwobi has been touted as the man to take up that role, do you think the Arsenal forward has shown enough potential?
Iwobi has to raise his game, he has to be his own man; he’s Okocha’s nephew but he can’t be Okocha. The former Eagles captain was in a class of his own and Iwobi has been trying to emulate Okocha’s game but he doesn’t have that. Let him just relax and play his game and be natural; that way he might succeed but trying to play like his uncle is going to be a big setback for him. If not Iwobi, looking at the current Eagles, do you see another player with that kind of creativity?
I don’t think we really have that kind of players in the team now; people have tipped Iwobi but I don’t think he really has that quality, I am talking about somebody who can turn a game on its head, a player who can singlehandedly wins games, we don’t have that at the moment. I may consider this young guy who plays for Villarreal in Spain, Samuel Chukwueze, I think I have seen that potential in him, he is such a player that if given a big platform he can do great things with the way he plays.
When you have hunger for something, the passion to go for something great, it really has a way of bringing out the best in a player. We had Nwosu for that role, then you came before Okocha, it seems the supply line for creative players has dried up, what is the problem?
We have a lot of talents in this country but we have a very bad scouting system. People keep asking me why I am not a coach and my response has always been that I am a not cut out to be a coach, I am a scout, I look for talents.
We have ex-internationals from the north, east, west and south of this country, why don’t you form a committee with these people and tell them to start looking for players? You will be surprised with the kind of result we are going to get within two years. There are talents in this country who only need the platform to excel but the people we have in charge of football in this country don’t understand the concept of scouting, they don’t really know how to make good use of people who have so much to offer. For example, some people in Akwa United keep telling me to come back home and work with the club and I asked what am I coming there to do? Must I be a coach? Give me something like director of football job then we can start doing something. At my age, I have to do something I am passionate about, not something you force me into doing. By the time Okocha was retiring, we should have had another player in that mould that would have taken over. Look at that Ajax team, if they eventually win the UEFA Champions League, the club will sell those players they have now and produce another team that will also do wonders, they have one of the best academies in Europe. This seems to be an indictment on Nigeria Professional Football League; clubs don’t have academies…
We don’t have professional clubs in Nigeria. How many South African players want to go to Europe to play, look at the Egyptian league, if you are not exceptional like Mohamed Salah you can’t even go abroad because their league is as strong and viable like the ones in Europe, why will they want to go to Europe when they have everything they need at home. Here, we have massive migration of players from Nigeria to many obscure countries around the world; some people have formed cartels, taking players away and turning them into slaves. Nigeria did not qualify for the last two editions of AFCON but do you think the Eagles can go all the way in the competition this time?
With good preparation they can go far. Another thing is unity, that oneness must be there, it is not good if we start hearing a lot of negative things like rancour among the players. If they can prepare well and achieve unity they can do something of note. So you don’t tip the Eagles to win the trophy?
There are other favourites; Egypt is there, they are the host nations, they have a formidable squad. Senegal is there, they have great players, I don’t think they have won it before and they will be determined to win it. If we get to the semi-final or final, then I will be very proud or we can even shockingly win the title like we did in 2013. You are one of the finest players this country has ever produced but it so unbelievable that you never featured in any edition of the Nations Cup, any regrets?
It was due to animosity of those coaches against me; some of them accused me of stubbornness which wasn’t an issue for me. I was supposed to play in Maroc 1988, Algiers 1990, Senegal 1992 and even the Tunisia 1994. I played qualifiers in all those tournaments but when it was time for the main competition, there were always dramas. I really wanted to be at the World Cup, it was my dream but it didn’t happen, about 60 percent of players in that 1994 squad were my mates, I think it was never meant to be, let us thank God for life. The Nigeria Football federation has tried to engage some of your colleagues who played for the country, do you think they are doing enough for ex-internationals?
I think they are doing some kind of segregation; they are biased in the way they do their appointments. Look at that Christian Chukwu case, the iconic captain that first lifted the Nations Cup. How old were those in NFF when this man achieved that feat? How much is $50,000? It is not up to what these guys give to their girlfriends, it is shame, we should not have allowed this to happen. And again, what is Enugu State government doing? That is another sad story. I think the younger generation of players can learn from this ugly episode. You played in the U-20 World Cup and Nigeria will be looking forward to winning the tournament for the first time this year, how do you think this current squad can do it?
Ghana is the only African country that has won the U-20 World Cup; Nigeria is always the pace-setter in Africa and I think if we put our mind to it we can win it this time. I have always spoken about preparation and getting the right kind of players. We know the kind of things that go on behind the scene when we are preparing for a competition like this, we know that some people will start collecting money from different kinds of players to get into the squad and drop those ones with talent. If we can put the sentiments of selling players apart and get good squad we can achieve something this time
around.