…insist exercise was not primarily for security  Telecommunications operators in the country have frowned at recent declaration by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) that 95.7 million (63.2 per cent) of SIM registration data captured by them were invalid. Although the regulator said it was in the process of ‘scrubbing’ the data, the telcos said the data collected by them was being unjustifiably benchmarked against standards that were not set at the beginning of the registration exercise. Speaking on behalf of the operators, the President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Mr Olusola Teniola, said SIM registration exercise was primarily to identify the subscribers. According to him, the operators did their best in capturing the data, but there was no means of verifying the information provided by subscribers. “Until now when the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) is trying to create a true national database, Nigeria has been lacking a national ID database, so there was nothing to cross check,” he said. Teniola noted that Nigeria is predominantly a prepaid market, which signifies that when the mobile operators came into this country; they were very concerned about how they were going to collect their money because there are no households that are assigned to a post code. “At the moment in Nigeria, we have around 92 per cent to 95 per cent, pre-paid market, the remaining balance is post-paid,” he explained. “When you own a postpaid account, the usual information they ask for is your passports; your proof of address is utility bill or even six months statements or three months statements from your bank. So, in the post-paid section of the industry, creditworthiness is not a problem because they can catch you because the information is on their database. “The SIM cards registration database was to ensure that the remaining balance of the pre-paid markets also have some forms of identification. Normally, minimum information is all that is required and the minimum information was not planned and stipulated correctly right from the beginning. So, you have, maybe operator A, B, C and D going about SIM registration the way they felt was necessary for the system. Remember, it was not to be used as a national database and it was not planned for security, it was for them to recognise the subscriber,” he said. Also speaking, the Chairman Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) Gbenga Adebayo, expressed shock that the regulator was condemning what the operators had spent billions of naira to achieve. “NCC has indicted itself with the claim, because they have the data for years. The question is why are they just seeing the invalid data now? Our members spent huge amount of money in capturing the data and some were even sanctioned and paid heavy fines over the registration. We make bold to say that we have the best database,” he said. The telecoms regulator had recently declared that 63.2 per cent of the data captured by the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) were invalid. According to the regulator, a total of 151,449,837 registration data of subscribers have been processed, with only 55,749,652 records valid. It noted that the remaining 95,700,185 records were invalid based on observed irregularities in face and fingerprint capturing, which are the most important aspects of SIM registration. The Commission, however, in another statement, reversed itself, saying that the 95.7 million data were not totally invalid, but undergoing scrubbing. NCC said the process of scrubbing registration data submitted by operators is an on-going one and that so far, over 60 million records had been “scrubbed” successfully. According to the Commission, scrubbing in telecoms parlance refers to the screening process of verifying biometric and personal information submitted by all operators in respect of each of their subscribers. “Although the figures quoted in the news reports were disclosed at a sensitization workshop to illustrate the quality of initial data submissions, subsequent process enhancements by NCC and operators have led to better quality submissions. The process is on-going and is constantly being reviewed for higher efficiency,” the telecoms regulator said.