Today marks 20 years of the return of democracy in Nigeria. Having gone through a painful and tortuous 16 years of military rule from 1983 to 1999, Nigerians were relieved when the then military administration of Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar kept its words and returned the country to democratic governance on May 29, 1999. That was after previous governments of Generals Ibrahim Babangida and the late Sani Abacha had taken the country on a rollercoaster of a journey, wasting billions of naira in botched democratic processes. The peak of the assault on governance in Nigeria was the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election, won by late business mogul, Chief MKO Abiola. But the death of Abacha and Abiola within one-month interval in 1998, appeared to have facilitated Nigeria’s return to democracy. Thus, when Abubakar handed over power to former President Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999, expectations were high that the country would now have an opportunity of taking its pride of place among the comity of nations, develop as it should and become a beacon of hope, not only in Africa, but the whole world.  On May 29, 1999, when he was sworn in, Obasanjo painted a grim picture of the evils prolonged military rule had done Nigeria. He cited massive corruption, ethnic divides, lack of development, collapse of infrastructure in form of roads, railways, industries and other facilities that made life meaningful for humans.  “Our infrastructures – NEPA, NITEL, roads, railways, education, housing and other social services were allowed to decay and collapse… Our country has thus been through one of its darkest periods,” Obasanjo had said.  It’s been 20 years since Obasanjo roused the interest of the nation and raised hopes for a better Nigeria that day in 1999. Between 1999 and 2007 when Obasanjo reigned, the fad among elected officials was to blame the military for the woes of the country.  Obasanjo’s party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), held power for an unbroken 16 years without achieving much of the promises made by Obasanjo at his inauguration. Successive administrations of the late President Umaru Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan could not fulfil the dreams, which Obasanjo espoused – that government would tackle such issues as the crises in the oil-producing areas, food security and agriculture, law and order.  PDP was, however, swept away in 2015 when President Muhammadu Buhari defeated Jonathan in the first ever time an opposition candidate would take out a sitting president in Nigeria. The first four years of Buhari’s administration was characteristically used to lament the rot brought on Nigeria by PDP. It is now an academic activity for Nigerians to decide if Buhari and his All Progressives Congress (APC) have improved Nigeria from where they took it from PDP.  While politicians delight over the longest democratic period Nigeria has had, the reality is that with the escalating population, we have not seen any action by government in the past 20 years to cater for the geometric rise in the number of Nigerians.  Granted that governments have talked about resuscitating infrastructure and similar issues, we are pained to realise that critical issues to address massive population growth, such as employment, industries, job creation, family planning and such are, at best, under-addressed.  We are not sure also that the country is more united today than it was in 1999 when civilians returned to power. Rather, Boko Haram, banditry, ethnic strife and polarization among regions have taken the front burner since then.  From a country expected to surge ahead in 1999, Nigeria is today a country many nurse the fear could implode at any time. The divide between the North and South is wider today than 1999.  There have been some good signs since then, too. For instance, spending 20 years of democracy at a stretch is in itself an achievement. There are other pockets of achievements in the past 20 years. At least, Nigeria is no longer a pariah state.  But as new governors, lawmakers and Buhari are sworn in today, we dare to say that Nigeria could have utilized the last 20 years better than it has done. The bridges of unity could have been stronger. The hope of the teeming youths, who form the bulk of the estimated 200 million population, could have been better enhanced. The security situation of the country today could have been better if the youth were rightly accommodated and the rising population taken care of adequately.  We, therefore, submit that after 20 years of democracy, while we celebrate the long stretch, we have little to celebrate in terms of the gains made in the utilization of the democratic process. We strongly hope that the next 20 years would be better used for the unity, security, peace and progress of Nigeria. It is only in doing so, we believe, that the country can assume its rightful place as the giant of Africa and fulfil the hope the world has in it. Hence, we charge President Buhari, the returning and new governors to focus more on governance, especially how to improve on the lots of Nigerians. The time for blame game is not now. Nigeria needs to urgently recover the lost ground. In the face of hopelessness, the nation’s leaders must give hope.