The recent clampdown on night clubs in Abuja by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA ) has added to the catalogue of woes of sex workers in the city. CALEB ONWE reports   The midnight crack operation resulted in the arrest of not less than 80 sex workers and nude dancers. Among those arrested were both women and men or different age grades, ethnicity and religious backgrounds. The Federal Capital Territory Development Authority (FCDA) had vowed to sustain the raid, especially on those who are operating illegally in residential areas.Some of the arrested culprits have been prosecuted before a mobile court and discharged after paying fines that ranged between N3,000 and N10,000. However, the allegations that some of the women were raped by security agents and released illegally is one controversy that has tainted the integrity of the whole exercise. Even the claims by some of the sex workers that police officers attached to the task force team raped them with empty water satchets has also raised a human rights violations questions. It is a known fact that every occupation has its own hazards that are peculiar to its nature and streams of operations but night clubs and red light zones, even commercial sex works, seem greatly awkward in Nigerian society due to religious and cultural backgrounds. While commercial sex work may be permissible in other climes where there is no cultural inhibitions, it is not only illegal but considered an anathema in this part of the world. However, the current operations have attracted a barrage of criticism and mixed reactions. A resident and the former President, Forum of Hotel Owners in Abuja, Chief Tomi Akingbogun, observed that no law in Nigeria stops anyone from doing business , but all businesses must be done under the ambit of the law “. Akingbogun applauded the actions of government of raiding the night clubs which he described as illegal places where drug peddlers and other criminals hide. According to him, sex work is not a legal profession in Nigeria. Even though he blamed the proliferation of illegal night clubs on FCT Administration which he noted has been sleeping and not doing what they are supposed to do, he stated that, ” waking up late is better than not waking up at all.” Akingbogun noted that as the past President of the Forum of Hotel Owners in Abuja, he can authoritatively state that many of the operators of these night clubs are not registered with any legal body. “Sex work is not a legal profession in Nigeria. It is not legal to recognise sex work in Nigeria and illegality cannot be part of tourism. It is the responsibility of government to maintain sanity and prevent noise pollution. “It is a late wake up for the government, but if they start doing what they are supposed to be doing, it is better to start late than never to start. You may not be aware, but let me tell you that many people have been kidnapped and killed in these illegal night clubs and joints. “There are too many hotels in Abuja without names, even sign boards and they are not registered. It is okay that government is stopping them especially those in resi-dential places. Government has to ensure that these places are not used for hiding drugs and committing crimes”, Akingbogun noted. Coordinator, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council, Shuaibu Umar, who vowed to sustain the raid, noted that operating night clubs and lounges in residential neighbourhoods constitute a violations of the land use and master plan of Abuja. Umar said: “The issue assumes a critical relevance not only because change of land use is inimical to provisions of the master plan but it has equally generated externalities which culminate into nuisance… “In line with its mandate to guide the implementation of the Abuja Master Plan, and as a responsive and responsible administration, the council through its operational departments, has written warning letters and served several contravention notices, instructing the operators of the contravening activities to vacate such premises and relocate to appropriate uses for their businesses “, Umar said. Inside Abuja gathered that one of the controversies trailing the operations is the protest by some of the women when they appeared before a mobile court. Some said that the officials did not bring all the arrested women to the court but had illegally re-leased them after allegedly having sex with them. The drama started immediately when about eight of the suspects who were arraigned at the mobile court alighted from the task force vehicle. One of the suspects who later identified herself as Comfort Abbah, openly accused some of the task force members of ” having sex ” with their colleagues and releasing them illegally.” Abbah, said that over 30 people were arrested during the raid but only a handful of them were brought before the magistrate. “We were more than 30 that were arrested by the task force. The task force members after having sex with some the girls have released them. We are here because nobody came to get us out,” she said. However, the protest did not stop the arraignment as the prosecution counsel, Barr. Eze Eze, read the charges against the suspects before the magistrate who was already seated to hear the matter. After reading the charges of dancing naked and causing public nuisance which the prosecution counsel said violated section 35 of the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB ) Act, four of the suspects pleaded guilty while four said they were not guilty of the offence. The presiding magistrate, Mrs. Idayat Akanni, told the suspects who pleaded guilty that the offences attracts N5, 000 fine or six months imprisonment. Following a plea for mercy by the suspects, the magistrate reduced the fine to N3,000 which they paid and regained their freedom. And for those who pleaded not guilty, the magistrate adjourned the matter to April 30 for further hearing, while she granted them bail in the sum of N10, 000 each and one surety in like sum. Meanwhile, the Acting Secretary, Social Development Secretariat, Hajia Safiya Umar, though did not disclose what happened before some of the arrested sex workers were illegally released by members of the task force, admitted that there was a compromise that must be investigated and punished. Umar noted that 32 girls were arrested at various red light zones in the city on Friday by the task force which