Nigerian singers, Simi and Tiwa Savage, have parted ways with their record label, X3M Music and Mavin Records, respectively.
X3M Music announced the “Jamb Question” singer’s departure late Wednesday, saying it was due to the expiration of the newly-married musician’s recording contract in a statement signed by A&R Executive, Vincent Nwanze.
The label made it known that both parties decided not to renew the contract that kept them together for the past five years in which Simi became a recognised talent in her own right.
Combining her music writing skills with her velvety-voiced tunes along with her production skills, she released the single, “Tiff” upon signing in 2014, earning her a Headies nomination and followed up with a well-received debut album in September 2017.
The album, Simisola, won the Album of the Year gong at Headies 2018 while her latest album, Omo Charlie Champagne which turned out to be her last for the label, was released on April 19, 2019.
X3M Music, like X3M Ideas, is part of the X3M Group founded in 2008 by Steve Babaeko, a renowned advertising executive and music enthusiast.
On her own, Tiwa Savage made exit from Mavin Records known on Thursday as she signed a major record deal with Universal Music Group (UMG).
In reply to an emotion-laden farewell message from the Chief Executive Officer of Mavin Records, Don Jazzy, Tiwa says she will always love and appreciate the renowned prodcuer for their seven years together.
“If I said today wasn’t emotional for me I would be LYING. Please promise me that our relationship will never change. I only want to make you proud of me. Not every superhero has an ‘S’ on their chest.
“You are my superhero DON DORO BUCCI. 7 years, 7 the number of perfection. I LOVE YOU ALWAYS AND FOREVER,” her farewell message read in part.
Don Jazzy had earlier written a farewell message, describing working with Tiwa as epic and saying Tiwa Savage remains the First Lady of Mavin Records.
“Our darling Tiwatope. We at Mavin would like to say a very big thank you for being such an inspiration to all of us, a friend, a sister. It’s been an epic journey with you and we are very proud of what we have achieved together. As you start this new chapter in your life we want you to know that we are solidly behind you and can’t wait for the world to see what we have always believed you can be. Your jersey as the First Lady of Mavin will forever be yours as we do not intend to fill that position with anyone else. We love you from the bottom of heart and pray GOD’s blessings continue to follow you. Amennnn. #Mavin @tiwasavage,” Don Jazzy wrote.
Tiwa Savage’s deal with UMG makes her the first Nigerian female act to be signed to the label. Dramatic rivalries have characterised the Nigerian music landscape in the past few months OLAITAN OLABANJO makes a quick scorecard of the artistes’ biggest songs and their most recent ones plus how they’ve all fared on the biggest online music platform, Youtube.     Wizkid Come closer - 7.9 million views… In “Show Biz” All indications are pointing to a fact that Nigeria’s diva, Tiwa Savage, isn’t getting it right on many fronts and the same may shut the MTV EMA Best African Act winner out of reckoning prematurely. First was her tempestuous wedding that collapsed irretrievably due to no reason of her, at… In “Show Biz” After some waiting, the list of nominations for the 12th edition of the Headies has been released, with usual suspects like Davido, Simi, Wizkid and Olamide dominating with multiple nominations. According to a press statement by Smooth Promotions, organisers of the Headies last week Friday, "the awards academy released… In “Show Biz”