Since 2015 when it won the presidential election and became a majority party in many states across the country, the All Progressives Party (APC) seems to be swimming from one pond of crisis to another.
For a party, which ran a campaign and sought the votes of Nigerians on the back of then floundering behemoth, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), APC does not seem to act differently from the much maligned PDP after 16 years of being in the opposition in different forms.
Much more agonizing is that the internal crisis in APC consistently since 2015 appears to make the ones of PDP a joke. Having won the majority votes again at the presidential, National Assembly and even states elections in 2019, APC is currently embroiled in a tussle for who would lead the National Assembly.
While the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, appear to have convinced President Muhammadu Buhari on the viability of Senator Ahmed Lawan as Senate president and Femi Gbabiamila as speaker, House of Representatives, there is no certainty that the duo would emerge when the National Assembly is convened on June 9 this year.
This is no thanks to the divisions within the party, with some other senators and House members having different ideas of who they want. Thus, while Tinubu and Oshiomhole push for Lawan and Gbajabiamila, the likes of Senators Ali Ndume and Danjuma Goje, among other members, are bent on contesting the seat with Lawan.
The case is not different in the House of Representatives, where the North-Central and even the South-East (represented by Hon. Nkeirka Onyejeocha) are staking claims and reasons why Gbajabiamila should not be elected.
To this class of senators and House members opposed to Lawan and Gbajabiamila, the party is only dictatorial, trying to meddle in what ordinarily is the private affair of the National Assembly.
We recall that in 2015, APC, then led by former National Chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun, had followed a similar path, preferring Lawan and Gbajabimila.
At the end, owing to its own indecision, the party was left bruised with the emergence of Senator Bukola Saraki and Hon. Yakubu Dogara as the Senate President and Speaker of the House respectively. The four years spent by Saraki and Dogara in the saddle was, at best, turbulent, occasioned by their own political party, APC.
We are afraid that APC might just be threading a familiar path once again. If the party did not put its house in order, it might just end up with another leadership it did not want in the National Assembly. We are worried that rather than consult, lobby and engage its members and other political parties that have a role to play in the election, APC is indulging in jackboot approach, trying to railroad everybody in its direction.
Perhaps, nothing illustrates the incongruences of APC than the chaos that attended its primaries at different states for the governorship and National Assembly elections. That was also extended to the general election, where it lost states like Adamawa, Bauchi, Imo, Oyo, Benue and similar ones to PDP.
As at the last count, three of its governors – Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Rochas Okorocha (Imo) and Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) have been suspended for various anti-party activities.
Also suspended are the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Uguru and the Director-General of Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu.
While Amosun was accused of instigating thugs to unleash attacks on party chieftains at the presidential campaign rally held in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, Okorocha and Amosun were also accused of working for other political parties during the elections.
Akeredolu’s actions were said to have “affected the fortunes of its candidates in the presidential and National Assembly elections in the state.”
While we hold no briefs for the individuals that were punished and do not begrudge the leadership of APC for exercising its powers in enforcing party discipline and supremacy, we note that both the tussle at the National Assembly and the suspensions are symptomatic of a party that is deeply in crisis.
Of recent, some prominent members of the part have even said publicly that the party would be dead in 2023 after the tenure of President Buhari. That is a measure of the depth of the lack of confidence in the ruling party by its members.
We are worried though that APC, by its own design, has opened a window wide for PDP to bounce back. From about 23 states it controlled in 2015, APC is currently struggling to have 20 states. There is the Osun State matter still at the tribunal.
We believe that APC should save itself from self-annihilation by its brand of politics. With PDP having up to 15 states now and a sizable number in the National Assembly, there is no doubt that 2023 is going to be harder than 2019 elections for APC. That is strictly by the making and design of APC itself. We hope that the party would pull itself back from self-destruction.