 Two days ago, the Federal Ministry of Health under the leadership of Professor Isaac Folorunso Adewole, rolled out the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) with the formal launch in Osogbo, Osun State. With this, an estimated 100 million Nigerians will now have access to basic health care at the Primary Health Centre closer to their homes. One PHC in each political ward across the country will deliver the BHCPF. Nigerians seeking care and medical attention on issues such as Malaria treatment, ante-natal care, delivery including Caesarean sections, under- 5 childhood illnesses, immunisation and screening and referral of hypertensive and diabetic cases, will all be offered at the PHC level and paid for by the Federal Government. The launch in Osogbo will be replicated in Niger State on May 10, Katsina – May 14 and Abia State- May 16, with phased roll out planned for other parts of the country. Since his assumption of office, Professor Adewole has gradually changed the narrative in the health sector as he anchored his programme on the revitalisation of the Primary Health Care system in the country, which he described as “the bedrock for our health care development.” Primary Health Care Revitalization project under his watch has received top priority. To date, over 4,000 PHCs have been upgraded. The World Bank through the Nigerian State Health Investment Project (NSHIP) has upgraded 1400 PHCs, UNICEF supported with 774, while the DFID led Maternal; New-born and Child Health (MNCH2) programme has refurbished 954 PHCs. State governments are not left out, with governors taking the initiative to improve delivery of care at the PHC level. His desire is to ensure that 10,000 PHCs are renovated and put to use across the country. On a programmatic level, Prof Adewole has moved systematically to address the drivers of underperformance. The following are examples of achievements so far: The Fight Against HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria –The health sector focus has shifted from passive to active case-finding in key affected populations, including people living with HIV/AIDS, children, urban slum dwellers, prisoners, migrants, internally displaced persons and facility-based health care workers, to target those most at risk for TB. There has been an increase in GeneXpert sites from seven health facilities in 2011 to 390 facilities as at the end of 2017 to enable us detect accurately and respond to TB cases.  The minister has expanded screening for TB, with over two million people screened and 204,000 treated in 2017 and 2018. The results of the survey indicate that the prevalence of HIV/AIDS has dropped from 3% in 2014 to 1.4%. We have expanded HIV/AIDS treatment to additional 78,000 Nigerians since 2017. Fight against Polio Eradication Initiative (PEI) – To ensure effective and efficient coordination of immunization activities, the minister approved the establishment of, Emergency Routine Immunization Coordination Centres at the National, States, and Local Government Area levels known as NERICC, SERICC and LERICC respectively to coordinate routine immunization activities and quickly improve immunization coverage at these levels in the low performing states. In less than a year, the States’ Emergency Routine Immunization Coordination Centres (SERICC) have been established and functional in 18 low performing states. This effort is already yielding fruit. Increased access to immunization – In line with Prof Adewole’s commitment to the health of our people particularly children under five, he engaged the Global Alliance for Vaccines Initiatives (GAVI) to continue their support for Nigeria. This has enabled the country unlock additional resources to the tune of $1.03bn grant for vaccines procurement and Health System Strengthening over the next decade. Upgrade of Tertiary Health Institutions and War Against Cancer – We are gradually rebuilding the Nigerian Health System to handle cancer and other major cases in Nigeria. We have upgraded tertiary health institutions to enable them treat cancer cases. The National Hospital in Abuja now has two high-end Linear Accelerator (LINAC) with capacity to treat up to 200 patients per day. The official commissioning of the LUTH-NSIA Cancer Centre is a major achievement of this administration. Bunkers for radiotherapy machines, brachytherapy machines and other relevant equipment have been procured for teaching hospitals. The provision of free surgical and laboratory services to all fistula patients in all Federal Teaching Hospitals and Federal Medical Centres (FMCs) in the country came under Professor Adewole’s watch while the supply of medical equipment to medical centres.
The good news today is that this amiable Professor of Gynecology turns 65. Born in Ilesa, Osun State, on May 5, 1954, Adewole attended Ogudu Methodist Primary School, Ilesa, where he spent one year, and Methodist School, Oke Ado, Ibadan, where he also spent another one year before completing his primary education at St Mathias Demonstration School Akure. He later attended Ilesa Grammar School where he obtained a Grade 1 certificate with distinction in 1970 and Higher Certificate, HSC, in 1972. In October 1973, he enrolled at the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, where he obtained an MBBS degree in 1978 and won the GlaxoAllenbury prize for Outstanding Performance in Paediatrics. In the same year he graduated from the University of Ibadan, he joined the University College Hospital, Ibadan, where he did his horsemanship. One year after, he left for Sokoto for the compulsory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). On completion of his service, he worked for a year as a medical officer at Adeoyo Maternity Hospital, Ibadan, before returning to the College Hospital as a Senior House Officer, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, where he served for one year, after which, he became the registrar in 1982.  In 1985, he left for a research fellowship in the Department of Medical Oncology, Charring Cross Hospital, London.   Akintunde is the Special Assistant Communication and Strategy to the Minister of Health The trip to Nasarawa State was meant to be a brief one. The agenda was for the Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, to inspect three Primary Health Care facilities funded in three different ways to test run the Nigeria State Health Investment Project (NSHIP), and to pay a courtesy… In “Perspectives” The Federal Government yesterday commenced the enrolment of clients for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) in Osun State with a pledge that the people will benefit from services worth N916m over the next nine months from the programme. Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, who made this known,… In “News” The Federal Government has launched the Health Facility Registry (HFR) of Nigeria, an electronic information system, which would grant public access to up-to-date information on health facilities as contained in the master facility list. Speaking at the launch, Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, explained that a master health… In “Health”