Felix Nwaneri reports on the emergence of Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi as the new chairman of Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), which has become an influential power bloc since the country’s return to democratic rule in 1999   The evolution of Governors Forum in Nigeria started with the formation of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) in 1981 during the Second Republic when the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) held sway. Governors on the platform of the opposition then formed a forum through which they intended to project and implement what they believe are “progressive ideals.”  With the re-emergence of democracy in 1999, the scope expanded with the formation of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), which has the governors of the country’s 36 states as members. The formation of the NGF was not only expedient but imperative for the states to assert themselves and to collectively influence the nature and course of policies at the national level.  Given the state of the polity in the days following the end of many years of military rule, there was a clear need for states to re-assert themselves and exercise the level of independence that is the wont of a true federation. It was also necessary for them to regain their past glory of constituting a credible unit within the wider context of the federation, thereby removing the manifest distortion which militates against the realisation of true federalism.  NGF’s establishment can be tied to two phases; the first being from 1999 to 2008 and the second being from 2009 till date.  The first phase was characterized by very minimal activity by the Forum as well as a paltry meeting attendance by members and a weak secretariat. The secretariat then was merely involved in organising meetings and collecting annual dues, which was used for running its secretariat. The second phase started in 2009, two years after the then governor of Kwara State, Bukola Saraki, became the chairman of the Forum.  He spearheaded a major restructuring and redefining of the NGF. His tenure ended    in 2011, when he handed over to the then governor of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi.  With the new structure, the office of Vice Chairman was created with Mr. Peter Obi, then governor of Anambra State, emerging as the pioneer vice chairman. Amaechi upped the ante, but severally ran into trouble with the presidency, then under Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. The forum assumed so much powers under Amaechi (now Minister of Transport) that there was hardly any national issue that its view was not sought for.  Though some analysts expressed discomfort then over what they described as “absolute powers of a group unknown to the nation’s constitution,” a few others argued that the NGF, apart from being registered under Part C of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 1990, deserved commendation for the unison with which it approached issues despite different sectional and political leanings of its members. But, politics being a game of interest masquerading as a contest of principle, the seeming unison within the NGF was broken by political manoeuvrings for the 2015 general elections as well as the constitutional amendment then.  Members of the Forum then were divided along sectional lines, unlike in the past, when the spoke with one voice. Perhaps, what finally broke the cord of unity was the crisis over the forum’s 2013 election. Its aftermath splitted the once powerful group into two factions. While Amaechi wanted a second term, some powers that be in the presidency then mobilized to stop him.   Their fear was that with then Rivers State governor as NGF chairman, then President Goodluck Jonathan’s second term bid would be threatened. The intrigues threw the entire nation into tension as the two camps in the contest – Amaechi and some PDP governors – made desperate attempts to ensure victory for their candidates. The then PDP National Chairman, Alhaji Bamanga Tukur, waded in, but Amaechi, who knew that it was a fight for his political life, stood his ground.  After several attempts to stop him failed, the PDP national leadership floated the PDP Governors’ Forum and made Godswill Akpabio (then governor of Akwa Ibom State) chairman.  The PDP was in control of 26 out of the 36 states then, but this machination still could not break Amaechi’s back as he went ahead to defeat the party’s anointed candidate, Jonah Jang (then governor of Plateau State). The outcome of the election further polarized the forum as Jang Jang refused toaccept defeat and formed a parallel NGF, with his colleagues, who voted for him.  The crisis festered until May 2015, when members closed ranks and elected Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State as chairman, but it was clear the glory days of the Forum were over.  However, last week’s emergence of Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi as the new chairman of the forum seems to have rekindled the hope of some political stakeholders, who have yearned for a rejuvenated NGF. Elected as deputy chairman of the forum was Sokoto State govrenor, Aminu Tambuwal. To some political stakeholders, the hope that Fayemi’s reign will bring back the glory days of the NGF is predicated on the way he emerged.  The new NGF chairman emerged as a consensus choice. Fayemi was nominated by Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State and the nomination was seconded by his Delta State counterpart, Ifeanyi Okowa.  The outgoing chairman of the Forum, Yari, who read the communique at the end of the meeting, said: “The Forum unanimously elected Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State as the new Chairman of the Nigeria Governor’s Forum from 2019-2021. Members also elected Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State as Vice Chairman of the Forum from 2019 -2021.”  In his acceptance remark, Fayemi expressed his gratitude for the confidence reposed in him by his colleagues and pledged to build on the achievements of his predecessors and success stories of the forum. He also promised that the forum under his leadership will represent the interest of Nigerians irrespective of their political affiliations.  His words: “My colleague, Aminu Tambuwal and I are delighted at the choice made by our colleagues this evening by consensus, the confidence reposed in us and in accepting this onerous responsibility that has been handed over to us, we promise our colleagues that we will step into the big shoes that Governor Yari will be leaving behind and build on the success story of this forum right from Governor Abdulahi Adamu through Governor Victor Attah, Governor Lucky Igbinedion, Governor Bukola Saraki and Governor Rotimi Amaechi before Governor Yari who so selflessly served this forum in the last four years.”  “We will build on this commitment with strong partnership with the Federal Government as federating units and thrash out issues as amicably as possible in the overall interest of our country.  “This is something that all parties of different persuasions have done and as you can see, the leadership comprises myself from the majority party, the ruling party and Governor Aminu Tambuwal from the Peoples Democratic Party.   What is most important is that this is unanimously chosen and we represent Nigeria regardless of our political persuasion.  “What we are going to do will be in the overall interest of our country in ensuring that our states are continuously strengthened; our country derives the benefit of strong dedicated states to our citizens and our partnership with all arms of government – Federal Government, the legislature and the development partners working with us in the overall interest of Nigerians.”  Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari, who expressed delight with the way Fayemi emerged, said since the choice was by consensus, it indicates the degree of confidence reposed in the Ekiti State governor by his colleagues.   Against this backdrop, the President urged the NGF new chairman to see his election as a unique opportunity to forge a deeper harmonious and fruitful working relationship, not only with the Federal Government, but also with other arms and tiers of government.  Similarly, the National Working Committee of the APC described Fayemi’s election as a right choice given his proven record of progressive leadership and experience as a development expert, minister and governor, among other endeavours.  “We are confident that the NGF under Fayemi’s leadership will continue in this best practice by cooperating and supporting the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration in delivering on the change agenda for Nigerians, particularly as the country gears up for the next four year of the administration’s renewed mandate,” the party said in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Lanre Issa-Onilu.