With less than a month to the end of the 8th National Assembly, the fate of the oldest bill in the parliament, the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), seems to be fading away. PHILIP NYAM reviews the position of the bill   For over 18 years, the National Assembly has made fruitless efforts to pass the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) in order to reform the Nigerian oil and gas sector. Sadly, some oil industry pundits now refer to the PIB as the “methuselah bill” because of its chequered history in the parliament. The attempt to reform the oil sector has moved erratically with one step forward and two steps backwards. Hence, with the unpredictable state of the Nigerian oil sector, occasioned by the inability of the two arms of government – executive and legislature – to agree on the enactment of the much desired PIB, the losses can only be imagined. In the absence of the touted omnibus legislation, which has been in the works since 2000, many petroleum sector watchers have argued that Nigeria does not have a petroleum industry, but an extractive industry. From oil and gas policy in 2004, when the National Oil and Gas Policy was drafted, to the approval of same on September 5, 2007, and the OGIC completed in May 2008, it could still be argued that there is no proper law that governs the sector. A key obstacle to the growth of the Nigerian oil and gas industry has been widely described as the regulatory uncertainty caused by the delay in the passage of the PIB. Several planned deep water projects in the country have been repeatedly pushed back because of regulatory uncertainty caused by the delay in passing the PIB. The Energy Information Administration (EIA), the statistical arm of the US Energy Department, said as a result of the uncertainty, international oil companies in Nigeria had sanctioned (reached a final investment decision) only one of the eight planned deep water oil projects. “Regulatory uncertainty has resulted in fewer investments in new oil and natural gas projects, and no licensing round has occurred since 2007. The amount of money that Nigeria loses every year from not passing the PIB is estimated to be as high as $15bn,” the EIA said. The PIB, which was introduced close to 20 years ago, suffered setbacks in the 6th and 7th National Assembly. Nigerians lamented the death of the bill in both Assemblies. Hence, in 2015, the Muhammadu Buhari administration proposed passing the PIB in various segments. It consequently separated the bill into four components: (Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, Fiscal Regime Bill, Upstream and Midstream Administration Bill, Petroleum Host Communities Bill). The government prioritised the PIGB, as it addresses reforms to the governance of the sector through the establishment of an independent regulatory commission – the Nigerian Petroleum Regulatory Commission, which incorporates the current Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) and the Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA); unbundling of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) into two limited liability companies, with one holding joint venture assets in the upstream sector and the other holding the production sharing contract assets; and governance and accountability arrangements with respect to the new institutions created. In order to avoid conflicting versions of the PIGB, the Office of the Senate President and Vice President, enlisted technical support from partners. The Support was also enlisted towards improving the understanding of other stakeholders to ensure that the bill was kept at the front burner for rapid consideration and passage. Consequently, the Senate on May 25, 2017, passed the PIGB, which seeks to unbundle the NNPC and merged its subsid-iaries into an entity. The House of Representatives subsequently passed it on January 15, 2018. This was a landmark event aimed at the replacement of the obsolete Petroleum Act of 1969. The passage by both chambers of the National Assembly was particularly significant, considering that the last 18 years had been characterised by failed attempts at policy reform in the petroleum sector. After its passage by both chambers, the PIGB was transmitted to the President for assent in July to enable it to become law. Unfortunately, President Buhari declined to assent to the bill. Withholding of Presidential assent But more than a year after the current Assembly took the bold step to pass and transmit the bill to the President for assent, the forth and back trajectory is still playing out. One of the reasons given by the presidency for withholding assent to the PIGB was the provision permitting the Petroleum Regulatory Commission troleum Regulatory Commission to retain as much as 10 per cent of the revenue generated. Provisions such as the expanded remit of an oil fund and others that created conflicts in interpretation or ambiguity were also partly the reason why the bill was not fit for presidential assent. Also, part of the presidency’s disagreement with lawmakers is the fact that the bill will reduce the power of the president and petroleum minister to oversee and award oil licences and contracts, said a person with knowledge of the matter. House advice Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, urged President Buhari to as a matter of urgency, sign into law, the PIGB passed by the National Assembly. Dogara described the passage of the bill as historic and landmark achievement by the 8th National Assembly after it was first introduced to the parliament by late President Umaru Musa Yaradua in 2008. He argued that with the passage of the long-awaited bill, the petroleum industry will witness drastic improvement as it will attract investors and open up the NPPC would be unbundled with the creation of other bodies. He, however, noted that work will still continue on other aspects of the petroleum industry by the National Assembly in accordance with the 8th Assembly’s Legislative Agenda. Stakeholders react At a recent content development workshop on the oil and gas sector reforms for House of Representatives organized by the Facility for Oil Sector Reform (FOSTER), experts expressed concern that Nigeria was losing due to her inability to put in place a law to reform the sector. Mr. Israel Aye, a senior partner, energy and commercial transaction expressed worry that the presence of oil in Nigeria seems to be a curse rather than a blessing though he concluded that it was a blessing that was being mismanaged. He submitted that there could be no better time than now for these bills to be attended to and necessary reforms put in place to bring the sector from a decline to growth and prosperity. According to him, the recent upheavals in the world economy also require new thinking, stressing that most countries of the world are already leaving Nigeria behind in reforming the industry. Aye pointed out that even countries that newly discovered oil and gas have carried out laudable reforms backed by legislations, making attention to shift from Nigeria to them. Another oil and gas expert, Mr. Henry Adigun, pointed out that both the legislative and executive arms of the government are not demonstrating the willingness to carry out the needed reforms in the sector. Adigun stressed that the problems of the sector are not insurmountable by government of any sovereign state, reminding that several other countries have made serious inroads in reforming the sector in their countries, except the Nigerian government, which has continue to procrastinate. He noted that “the state of the oil and gas sector lies with the government. The spate of criminality lies with the government. Oil companies can do whatever they like and go with it because the government allows them.” Speaking on the imperatives of the PIB, an oil and gas expert with ZERA Advisory and Consultancy, Mr. Joe Nwakwue, said reform in the sector was inevitable if the country must avoid the Venezuelan pitfalls. He further noted that the reforms are even more imperative now because of the rapid changing global energy dynamics, and its attendant uncertainties to our national economy. The expert expressed dismay rethat the nation’s oil and gas resources are not optimally managed, following poor resources stewardship, leaving negative impact on the economy. He observed that despite some of the efforts or initiatives put in place by the government, investors and operators in the industry are not interested in temporary policies, but legislations that would give a good legal framework to their operations. While government is not forthcoming with new legislations, he said the old legislations, which put the country at disadvantaged position in the industry were being enjoyed by the foreign oil companies to the detriment of the country. One of such ancient legislations he said allowed them to “find, win and carry away” crude oil, which does not place any obligations on them to refine in Nigeria. Nwakwe said that with such proposed legislations before the National Assembly, the PIGB, the Petroleum Industry Administration Bill, the Petroleum Industry Fiscal bill, and the Petroleum Industry Host and Impacted Community bill, before the National Assembly, the industry would be better off if government is willing to make them become laws. Similarly, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, at an industry event in Lagos in November last year, noted that no discussion about the future of the oil and gas could be divorced from the PIB “which represents the most ambitious and comprehensive reform in decades of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria.” He said while there had been varied reactions to the President’s recent decision to return the PIGB to the National Assembly for slight amendments, the administration remained fully committed to its passage. “We are working closely with the National Assembly to ensure its timely passage. The reforms proposed in the PIGB reflect our collective desire to entrench transparency and sustainability of oil and gas operations in Nigeria to enable the country finally to realise the full potential of her hydrocarbon resources,” Osinbajo added. The scope of PIGB The bill seeks to empower institutions and not individuals, remove bad governance which leads to inefficiency, ineffectiveness, rent-seeking tendencies, inequity, secrecy and corruption in the country’s petroleum industry. It is proposed to reform the governing institutional framework of the Nigerian petroleum industry by setting up an independent regulatory agency, unbundling the NNPC into two limited liability companies and setting specific policy roles for the Minister of Petroleum Resources, amongst others. Of course with the PIGB, almost off the ladder, other parts of the bill begging for attention by the National Assembly include the Petroleum Industry Administration Bill (PIAB), Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill (PIFB) and Petroleum Host and Impacted Communities Bill (PHICB). Primarily, the PIAB intends to establish a transparent and efficient management of exploration and production operations, while the PIFB deals with financial terms, in terms of tax regimes and contractual terms to help realise full value in line with global standards. The PHICB on the other hand, is to cater for the rights and opportunities for local benefits, in terms of restitution for environmental and social costs of resource extraction activities. The poser It appears the 8th National Assembly has made much more efforts than any other Assembly on the PIB. The question, however, remains that with the time, energy and resources invested on the bill in the last four years, will the bill still not become law go before the expiration of the tenure of the 8th Assembly?