Former Liverpool FC forward, El Hadji Diouf, 38, is among the eight African football legends expected to arrive Lagos today for The Match to celebrate Lagos Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, on Saturday in Lagos. The Senegalese superstar who was largely responsible for his country’s first ever quarter final finish at the 2002 World Cup jointly hosted by Korea/Japan, is to fly into Lagos from France later today. Although retired from football since 2015, El Hadji Diouf still have his eyes on the game, working as a Government Goodwill Ambassador and Adviser on Sport to President Macky Sall. He is also running his own sports newspaper business in Dakar and operating his own gymnasium. Diouf was signed in 2002 for £10m by Gérard Houllier ahead of the 2002 World Cup. His impressive performances in the tournament for Senegal, led to much excitement for his arrival at Anfield. Apart from the spat incident at Liverpool, Diouf distinguished himself in the Premier League before moving on to Bolton Wanderers and other clubs elsewhere. Coordinator of The Match, Waidi Akanni could not hide his feelings yesterday with the arrival of former Bolton Wanderers’ midfielder, Khalilou Fadiga. “As you can see, the excitement is building as the former African stars have started to trickle into Lagos to honour Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his laudable strides in sports developments in the state,” the ex- international said. He also listed those coming into Lagos today to include another Senegalese midfielder, Diomansy Kamara, who played three editions of the Africa Cup of Nations for the Teranga Lions. He was a regular for Fulham before other stints with Leicester City and West Brom. He retired from the game on June 1, 2016. Former Black Stars of Ghana Captain, Stephen Appiah is also on the card to arrive this evening. Appiah represented Ghana at the youth, Olympic, and senior levels. He captained the Black Stars at their World Cup debut in 2006 and was a member of their squad for the 2010 World Cup