Nigeria has, for the umpteenth time, slated a fresh date for implementation of new gas pricing template. ADEOLA YUSUF, in this report, examines implication of the May 29 new deadline for gas pricing model on power generation’s gross inefficiency  Penultimate Friday, Nigeria, a country with 187 trillion standard cubic feet of proven gas reserves, was thrown into darkness. And as a tradition, the last outage was, like those before it, caused by lack of gas. Putting the latest crisis succinctly, Chairman of Egbin Power Plant, the biggest thermal generation plant in the country, Mr. Kola Adesina, said: “Recently, we had serious power outage in Nigeria and the reason for that is gas.” The gas provider, in the words of Adesina, had a “leakage on the pipeline and in solving the leakage, every generation company had to run down their turbine because they can’t be supplying gas while they are repairing what need to be repaired. Nigeria had travelled this route before but what made the last outage unique is that it came barely four days before the announcement of implementation of new gas pricing template by the Federal Government. The real reason Despite claims that the halt of gas supply that led to abrupt power outage was caused by pipelines’ breaks, the problem of pricing has been the key hurdle to smooth gas supply to thermal plants. “The gas supplier would prefer to sell gas, not only to those who can use the gas but also those who can pay,” Adesina explained. “If the system of payment is not supportive of 100 per cent payment, they are not motivated to give the power generation companies gas. “If the tariff today for gas and pipeline is for three dollar and the gas supplier can sell that gas at seven or eight dollars, there is no incentive, then he will prefer to sell to the one who would pay more. “If truly there is a domestic supply obligation that needs to be enforced, such that the law of comparative analysis in terms of gas supply in Nigeria is made the first priority, to all the power generation companies, we need an enforcer, of course, there is a need for this,” the Egbin boss stated. The latest intervention In an effort to address exorbitant charges imposed by gas distributors on natural gas used by commercial consumers, the Federal Government had announced it would release a new gas pricing template on May 29 to address the ‘unreasonable charges.’ Dr Ibe Kachikwu, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, disclosed this during an interactive session on National Gas Policy and Regulation last Tuesday. The minister said the $7.45 per standard cubic feet of gas paid by manufacturers in the country is too high. In 2018, government specified that the price of gas should be market-driven and should also be based on Export Parity Price but lack of enforcement had resulted in people fixing all kinds of prices for gas, Kachikwu stated. He said: “Government is relying on market-derived pricing mechanism, which matches the international pricing. “This is the law that people are overlooking and manufacturing figures from nowhere. “If the international price of gas is $5, why should the end-user in Nigeria pay $8?,” he quipped. “We are unable to see how the current structure conforms to the rules that have been set. The proposed pricing will be done before May 29.” The GENCOs’ headache, antidote The generation companies and their DISCOs counterparts unanimously agreed that the solution to the crisis rocking the sector is a fresh review and implementation of the Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO) by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). Talks on the review and implementation, a source at NERC told this newspaper, was slated to begin in the third quarter of this year. NERC, Adesina said, had already missed the contractually agreed re“view six times since the November 1, 2013 privatisation of the power industry. The inability to effect a major review to bring about a cost-reflective tariff, he said, is one of the major hindrances to the efforts by all stakeholders to end power epileptic in the country. The Distribution companies had kept on mounting pressure on government to review the tariff but Adesina said that the need to mount pressure on government should not be limited to DISCOs. All Nigerians, he said, should ensure that the review is carried out and implemented by NERC, because DISCOs, GENCOs and gas producers are all in business and without a cost-reflective tariff, return in investment (RoI) could not be guaranteed and without RoI, no meaningful success would be recorded in business. “Last Wednesday was the first day for meter roll out and I believe by last Thursday most of them (Meter Asset Providers) would begin to see how fast they can roll out the meters,” he said. “But my own view has always been that when you have a problem of this nature, you need a holistic way. “But because the narrative of the power sector have shifted to metering as the supposed key solution here, we want to see if that alone can solve the problem, but I know it won’t solve the problem.” A loss to thermal plants The back-and-forth movement on the gas supply is seriously affecting thermal plans .For instance, Egbin has fixed all the turbans and all are functional to generate 1,320 megawatts today, but, according to the company, there is “no gas and the system can’t be powered, gas available to us can probably give at best today 750 megawatts, that’s what we can do by way of gas supply. We have a plant with installed capacity of 1320 MW, which it had not had since inception; this is the first time all the units are available and ready to work and there is no gas, so if gas is the issue, we should ensure gas availability as a nation,” he explained. Proffering solutions to the imbroglio, he said: “For us to have an holistic approach to the problem, Nigeria should not have just one pipeline supplying everyone. Nigeria should have multiple pipelines to all the power station we have, such that if there is a shortage in one, they can divert gas to the other ones, that’s one side. “We have heard recently from different speakers and president of the African development bank (AfDB), to the effect that without a cost effective-tariff, which is the fundamentals in the power sector, we may not be able to get uninterrupted power supply in Nigeria. “Once there is cost-reflective tariff and all the critical enablers, investors love profit and would want to make legitimate money. All those things we want to put in place can be put in place if the fundamentals are right.” He declared that the major reason DISCOs are not doing well is because of lack of cost-reflective tariff. “We ought to have gotten six tariff reviews in Nigeria. Six times and a tariff review hasn’t been done and yet high level of service delivery is expected. DISCOs are not doing well because the fundamentals are not right,” he declared. DISCOs are supposed to use N305 per dollar to charge consumers for the power they are using, instead they are using N199 to a dollar , so if the equipment gotten by DISCOs goes for N360 per dollar, which is the open market rate. Then there is a big issue, we can’t be using N199 for DISCOs to charge consumers were as generation charge DISCOs at N305 per dollar, someone is loosing money and it’s the DISCOs. Forex angle The other side of this scenario is that there are distribution companies preparing to have power supply to those who have capacity to pay higher and that still speaks to the cost reflective tariff issue. “So, government and regulator should find a way to resolve the cost tariff and capacity to pay challenge. In other to get supply to everyone, government should find a way to help those who can’t help themselves. Last line There must be a holistic approach to the problem. Nigeria should not have just one pipeline supplying all the thermal plants. The country should have multiple pipelines to all the power stations we have, such that if there is a shortage in one, they can divert gas to the other ones. Collaboration among major stakeholders is also key to resolving this issue.