In a drive to explore options to bridge the nation’s 17 miilion accommodation gap, the Managing Director of Family Homes Funds (FHF), Mr Femi Adewole, said the programme was set to boost cooperative housing through its rolled out funds. He disclosed this at a forum organised by the Nigeria Integrated Social Housing (NISH), Affordable Housing Ltd in collaboration with FHF in Abuja. According to Adewole, the funds would facilitate the production of 500, 000 homes and 1.5 million jobs. “It is a very new fund and has been running effectively in the past nine months,” he said. Besides, he stated that FHF was meant to provide inexpensive mortgages for low-income individuals and families across the country.To make it all inclusive Adewole stressed the need to make cooperatives very strong vehicles for reliable and affordable housing delivery in the country. According to him, there was need to identify capacity gaps hindering cooperatives from playing central role in affordable housing delivery and fix them Under the FHF scheme, which is domiciled in the Ministry of Finance, civil servants who earn salary of 30,000 and above can have access to mortgages to own a home. According to the managing director, cooperatives in an organised sector could be transformational enablers of affordable housing delivery particularly to people on low and middle income. Adewole said that Nigeria could replicate what other housing cooperatives in other parts of the world were doing, adding that Urban Housing Cooperative in India owned about 4.5 million homes between them over the last 10 years. He said that there were about 2,600 Housing Cooperatives in Pakistan with inception since 1972 produced about 27 million homes strong membership, while there were 5,700 housing cooperatives in Zimbabwe of with significant number of members as women. Adewole said that FHF had four pillars of funds to achieve home ownership namely: Affordable Housing Fund, Home Loans Assistance Funds, Rental Housing Fund and Land and Infrastructure Fund. Registrar, Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria (CORBON), Dr. Peter Kuroshi, decried the challenges hindering housing delivery in the country, adding that there was need for regulation in the sector. Kuroshi said that apart from affordability and quality, standardisation should be encouraged in housing construction value chain. “Most cooperatives are committed to housing projects not knowing precisely what it entails in terms of standardisation in building process and cooperative profit management,’’ he said. Justifying the importance of cooperative in affordable housing, Former Managing Director, Police Mortgage Bank, Mr.Anthony Iyomere, said that since government could not adequately provide direct housing to people in need of shelter, cooperative housing should be seen as alternative means. According to him, one of the reasons the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) could not reach out to many workers was because of non-remittance of the National Housing Fund (NHF) contributions by some employers. Iyohmere added that FMBN was presently dwelling on Cooperative Development Loan and had seized dwelling on Estate Development Loan due to defaulters. According to him, Nigerians should come together to pool resources through cooperative means to achieve affordable housing. Some of the challenges of housing cooperatives in housing delivery, Iyohmere said included low income, high interest rate, lack of access to land and government mortgage, documentation requirement, dearth of long-term funding and high cost of land titling and acquisition, among others Iyohmere also listed key cooperative principles, which FHF would use to appraise request of cooperative societies. According to him, they included voluntary and open membership, democratic member control, economic participation, autonomy and independence, education, training and information, cooperation among cooperatives and a concern for community.