The Nigerian film industry is one that has benefitted enormously from contributions made by women who took their stand to confront the status quo with innovations and creativity. New Telegraph’s EDWIN USOBOH looks at the inputs of these ‘Super babes’ and their contributions to the development of the industry   MO ABUDU Ever since Mosunmola Abudu, otherwise known as Mo Abudu, ventured into filmmaking, she has carved a niche for herself as a formidable force and a voice to reckon with in the movie industry. This filmmaker and media mogul, who is fluent in Queen’s English, is also bold, daring, intelligent, cerebral, beautiful and charming. The CEO of EbonyLife TV has produced award-winning films for both cinema and television networks. Some of her notable works include ‘The Wedding Party’, ‘Fifty’, ‘The Royal Hotel Hibiscus’ and ‘Desperate Housewives Africa’. Mo’ Abudu is focused, never gets distracted by any circumstance and situation, being a very hardworking woman. She has three of her films, ‘Chief Daddy’, ‘The Wedding Party’, and ‘Fifty’, acquired by Netflix, an American video streaming platform. In 2017, Abudu was mentioned in The Hollywood Reporter’s annual list of the ‘25 Most Powerful Women in Global Television alongside Angelica Guerra (Latin America), Jane Tranter and Julie Gardner (United Kingdom). In 2018, Abudu made headlines again with ‘Chief Daddy’ after which she got herself a seat as one of the academy directors for the prestigious Emmys. This mother of two is very comfortable in front of the camera and has always been used to klieg-lights. She is the face of “Moments with Mo,” the hugely successful talk-show she founded in 2006, which has attracted such high profile guests as Hillary Clinton and IMF chief, Christine Lagarde. She recently won the highly converted 2019 Médailles d’Honneur at France’s Cannes festival. KEMI ADETIBA Kemi Adetiba is a prolific director and filmmaker. She was introduced into the digital media sphere as a child, before becoming a radio presenter with Rhythm 93.7 FM. She began to make a transition from being a voice on radio to being a face on television by producing and presenting several shows on Mnet, which includes Studio 53, Temptation Nigeria which she presented alongside Ikponmwosa Osakioduwa. After years of success in front of the camera, her love of storytelling led her to enrol in the New York Film Academy. She made her entry into Nollywood when she worked on ‘Wedding Party’ for EbonyLife films. In The Wedding Party, Kemi’s take on a Nigerian wedding between two different tribes is as chaotic, hilarious and suspense-filled as the real deal and it premiered opening night, at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF), as the opening film of the City-to-City Spotlight. Adetiba was also responsible for some issue based series and documentaries that include ‘Brotherhood’ and ‘King Women’. The success of the feature film saw her making her second feature film, ‘King Of Boys,’ a political thriller that ruled 2018. Aside from breaking her own record with ‘The Wedding Party 1,’ Adetiba was listed as a game changer in 2019. According to a Nigerian economist, Bis-marck Rewane, Kemi Adetiba is amongst the 15 people who he believes will shape the country’s economy. BOLANLE AUSTEN PETERS Bolanle Austen-Peters is a lawyer and businesswoman. She is the founder of- Terra Kulture, an arts and culture centre based in Lagos. In 2013, she established the Bolanle Austen-Peters Productions (BAP) which produced a Broadway-style musical titled, ‘Wakaa The Musical’, staged at Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos. ‘Wakaa The Musical’ later became the first Nigerian musical to show in London, at the Shaw Theatre. Her feature film on Ebola outbreak in Nigeria, ‘93 Days’, still stands her out till date. In ‘93 Days’, Nigerians utilise the opportunity which filmmaking affords to tell their own story about the spread of Ebola to the country in 2014. In this movie, Producer Bolanle Austen Peters, Director Steve Gukas and their team lead the narrative on one of the most influential periods in Nigeria’s most recent history, Dr. Ameyo Adadevoh’s sacrifice and how the country was able to contain and eradicate the disease in a little over three months. The movie was later premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival, the Pan African Film Festival in Los Angeles, as well as several international film festivals. “93 Days is a masterfully crafted incredible story of bravery and sacrifice and is definitely a must-see. It showcases the best of Nigeria, it’s powerful, gripping and an emotive piece. I am proud,” Bolanle Austen Peters, said. For this 50-year-old film producer, promoting African arts is the goal. OMONI OBOLI  Omoni Oboli is a Nigerian actress, producer, scriptwriter and director. In 2009, she took her grand re-entry into the movie scene with her role, Mona in Kunle Afolayan’s ‘The Figurine’. She would later enroll at the New York Film Academy to acquire skills in movie directing. Omoni made her debut into movie directing in 2014 with ‘Being Mrs Elliot’ which topped the charts as one of Nigerians highest grossing movies for long. Her other films, ‘The First Lady’ and ‘Wives on Strike’ would later follow the same pattern. She is a phenomenal scriptwriter and anyone who has watched ‘Being Mrs Elliott’, ‘The First Lady’ or ‘Wives On Strike’ will agree. ‘Okafor’s Law’ follows the story of a promiscuous young man who makes a bet to rekindle his romance with three of his ex-girlfriends and things take an amusing, tumultuous turn from there. Her blockbuster, ‘Okafor’s Law’, also premiere at City To City Spotlight at the 41st Toronto Inter- national Film Festival in 2016. TOPE OSHIN Tope Oshin was the only female director on M-Net’s hit soap opera ‘Tinsel’ in its first five seasons – she shot about 350 episodes of the show. She has produced and directed several acclaimed movies such as ‘Fifty,’ ‘Journey to Self,’ ‘In Line’ among others. Known as one of Nigerian’s most versatile film directors, Tope Oshin’s first documentary, ‘Amaka’s Kin’, celebrated the life of the legendary, Amaka Igwe, and highlighted the voices of working female directors. In 2017, she shot the critically acclaimed movie, ‘We don’t live here anymore’ and in 2018, she returned to the cinemas with ‘Up North.’ She also has credits in acting, scriptwriting and movie production. Tope Oshin has worked on projects like, ‘Up North’, ‘Tinsel’, ‘Hotel Majestic’, ‘Shuga’, ‘Hush’ and the award-winning adult-film, ‘We Don’t Live Here any More’. GENEVIEVE NNAJI  Genevieve Nnaji is one of the accomplished Nigerian movie stars with mention in international media. The actress has featured in over 200 movies since her career kicked off 20 years ago. She also featured in the film ‘Half of a Yellow Sun’ based on Chimamanda Ngozi’s book of the same title, about the Nigerian-Biafran War from 1967- 1970. In 2015, Nnaji made her debut as a producer when she co-produced ‘Road to Yesterday’ which she also featured in. In 2018, she made her directorial debut with the movie, ‘Lionheart’, which became the first Nollywood movie to be acquired by Netflix before release. It was premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival and got good reviews. Nnaji has since signed a management deal with a top US talent management firm and has been working on new grounds to break into Hollywood.  BIODUN STEPHENS  Biodun Stephens resigned her job as an On-Air Presenter to study filmmaking and scriptwriting at the London film academy. Upon her return, she immersed herself into making a change in Nollywood and partnered with Koga Entertainment to make the movie, ‘The Visit,’ which went on to open doors for her. Working with several individuals, Stephens made headlines again with the interesting drama, ‘Picture Perfect’ in 2017. In 2018, Stephens joined Tope Oshin as one of the female filmmakers working with M-Net and Multichoice Nigeria to create content for Africa Magic. Stephens latest work ‘Joba’, a new Nollywood faithbased film recently hit the cinema nationwide. ‘Joba’ captures the travails of a young Christian couple battling between their marriage and faith. Their faith is tried when all fingers point to the husband as the cause of their troubles.  STEPHANIE OKEREKE – LINUS Althoughshe startedhercareerin herteenage years by starring in two Nollywood movies, ‘Compromise2’ and‘Waterloo’ in1997, Stephanie took a step further to study directing at the New York Film Academy. After graduating from the New York Film Academy in 2007, Okereke released the movie ‘Through the Glass’ in which she served as director, scriptwriter, producer and actress. The film received an Africa Movie Academy Award nomination for Best Screenplay in 2009. In 2009, a time when movies at the cinema were not a popular choice, Stephanie took a plunge with her movie, ‘Through the Glass’, grossing in over N10million within its first week. Stephanie also has a strong voice on social campaigns both locally and internationally. Her award-winning film, ‘Dry’, which focused on Vesicovaginal fistula condition and under-aged marriage among young women earned her a special recognition at the first ‘Blacks in Cinema’ presentation in Los Angeles. The film released in 2015, was later screened a second time at the Pan African Film and Arts Festival (PAFF), in February 2019. The actress has won several awards and received numerous nominations in the course of her work. They include the 2003 Reel Award for Best Actress, the 2006 Afro Hollywood Award for Best Actress, and three nominations for Best Actress in a Leading Role at the Africa Movie Academy Awards in 2005, 2009 and 2010. She was also the runnerup for the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria beauty pageant of 2002. BIOLA ALABI  Biola Alabi is notable for spearheading the birth of one of Africa’s biggest movie awards, Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards, while she was working with Multichoice Nigeria. After her exit from the cable TV company, Alabi began working on her production house, Biola Alabi Media (BAM). The company delved into movie production and has successfully found space as a major player in the industry. With the production of ‘Banana Island Ghost’ and ‘Lara & the beat,’ the company has made an impactful contribution to Nollywood. According to Biola Alabi, ‘Lara and the Beat’ “is a reinforcement of our promise and goal to continue to tell authentic African stories to local and global audiences. We have worked with the best talents in the industry and engaged key partnerships and collaborations that have helped to deliver this outstanding movie.” Alabi went a step further to host a TV show on Arise Network. She has since been a host of the TV station coverage of the Academy Awards, Oscars since 2017. Alabi on experience in media, consulting and how approach to women empowerment, she said: “My approach has always been, giving women an opportunity to operate. I think one of the things women lack today is equal opportunity. Even in companies where I have worked, there were women with great talents but they were not given an opportunity. Perhaps it is a function of the wrong conception that they would mismanage the role with their family life or because they are women. I believe in giving equal opportunity to both men and women,” she said. She is also the founder of Grooming for Greatness, a leadership of development and mentorship programme for a new generation African leaders. EMEM ISONG Another Nollywood star who has proven herself to be multitalented both in front and behind the camera is Emem Isong. She started out with ‘Jezebel’ which gave her a big break back in 1994. Afterwards, she went ahead to do her own solo projects with movies such as ‘Critical Decision’ and ‘Promise Me Forever’ before she made her directorial debut in 2014 with ‘Champagne’ and ‘Code of Silence’ in 2015. She worked with Remmy Jez for eight years as a producer on his movies. The relationship lasted till 2008 when she decided to end their working relationship. And then, she went on to co-produced the movie Reloaded in 2008, which starred Nse- Ikpe Etim, Ramsey Nouah, Ini Edo among others. Emem is credited for paving the way for many other females in the industry who became producers, directors and actors too. Emem is the CEO of The Royal Arts Academy and has written and produced notable movies such as ‘Breaking Point’, ‘She Devil’, ‘A Minute To Midnight’, ‘Play Boy’, ‘Private Sin’, ‘Master Stroke’, ‘Rumours’, ‘Shattered Illusion’, ‘Promise Me Forever’ and ‘Emotional Crack’. FUNKE AKINDELE-BELLO Funke Akindele Bello made her acting debut in the educational TV series ‘I Need To Know,’ which ran from 1998 to 2002. She has over the years evolved into a force on the small and big screens, creating the most successful media franchise with her comedy movie, “Jenifa” In 2008, Akindele burst into mainstream consciousness with the comedy movie, which tells the story of Suliat a.k.a Jenifa, a secondary school dropout who lives in a backwater town called Aiyetoro. She followed through on the commercial and critical success of the movie with a sequel titled “The Return of Jenifa.” In 2015, Akindele produced a spin-off television series titled “Jenifa’s Diary,” which has gone on to create household stars and win several awards, including the AMVCAS. In 2017, Akindele released a musicoriented TV series titled “Industreet,” giving first-time actors an opportunity to showcase and grow their talent. Jenifa as she is popularly known has over 100 movies to her credit as actress, writer and producer. She won the Africa Movie Academy Award in 2009 for Best Actress in a Leading Role.