●Ohanaeze, CAN back OBJ’s claim on Fulanisation  Many prominent Nigerian groups and individuals, among them the Ohanaeze Indigbo and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have thrown their weights behind a recent warning by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, in which he alerted the nation of an alleged Fulanisation agenda that is purportedly brewing.  The former president had last weekend in Delta State raised the alarm, warning against such occurrence at this stage of our national life while alleging that some people are clandestinely working towards a devilish agenda to put the country in crisis. The reactions of the prominent Nigerians is coming on the heels of another report which says that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has issued a radio license to be broadcast in the Fulani dialect. All these summed up the anger of some of these eminent Nigerians, though the former president has also received backlashes from some people, especially those of northern extraction.  OBJ said the obvious –CAN, Thompson  In its view, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), advised Nigerians to peruse the message of the former president and ignore the messenger, while noting that Obasanjo did not say anything new but echoing what had been in the public domain. Speaking with Saturday Telegraph, Pastor Oladeji Adebayo, who is the Special Assistant on Media and Communications to the CAN president, Dr. Samson Supo Ayokunle, explained that the country’s security situation has degenerated owing to a lapse occasioned by the lukewarm attitude of the government.  “What Obasanjo said is in order, you may not like him but you cannot dismiss his views on the state of insecurity with a wave of hand. Of a fact, Obasanjo did not say anything new, this had been the position of CAN having watched helplessly as our members are being killed, maimed and kidnapped. “During the week, there was a mass burial of victims of the bandits’ attacks in Katsina state. Nigeria has become a ‘No Man’s Land’ where bandits, herders’ killers, kidnappers and terrorists have literally teamed up to make a mess of our security system and we have not heard story of their arrest, trial and persecution.  “The government has been boasting that our money is secured under its watch but can it say the same thing about our security? The whole northern part of the country is unsafe. At first, it was a gradual genocide in the North Central against the Christian predominantly communities. “Few days ago, bandits attacked a church in Kaduna and some members were abducted and they were demanding for N20m ransom! Leah Sharibu and other Chibok girls are still languishing in the den of the terrorists despite all the promises made by the President and his government.  “Instead of abusing President Obasanjo for saying the obvious, the government should review the security template with a view to stopping all the killings and other criminal activities in the country to prove the former President wrong. Also adding his voice to the matter is Reverend Ladi Thompson, who advised that Nigerians should not take the statement by the former president lightly, but look beyond it to save Nigeria. Insisting that the issue should not be about Obasanjo or Buhari, Thompson said the country is hemorrhaging, as such, needs urgent attention. “This whole issue should not be about Obasanjo, Buhari or the riot act that was read by the Minister for Information, Lai Mohammed.  The ‘Ebora Owu’ may have been rude in speech but the facts on ground say that Nigeria is bleeding, people are dying like fleas and the value of human worth is being depleted daily by unnamed aggressors. “No right-thinking nation should therefore be interested in all the diversionary smoke being generated when the real issues are yet to be addressed.  If we can get our priorities right, there are three crucial questions that need to be answered urgently. Looking at the big picture from a national perspective the citizens deserve to know whether or not Nigeria is a nation at war. “After this first question has been settled the second poser might be; ‘who is at war with us or who are we at war with?’ Then the big question would be; ‘how long has this war been ongoing and why has no one declared a state of war officially since?’ it is only when these basic questions have been answered that other things can then be considered in their turn. “Yoruba people have a saying that it is only an idiot that will ignore his affliction of leprosy to fixate on finding a cure for ring worm. With all due respect there is a younger generation of Nigerians that are getting tired of these charades.  “There is evidently something in Nigeria that is spilling human blood, it involves guns and foreign trained militants who seem to be magicians that can teleport themselves across national borders. Whether we want to call it war or nor, this strange phenomenon has to be identified and addressed. “The only question that our retired General Obasanjo needs to answer is whether or not he knew that this war was already at work in Nigeria during his tenure as president and why he did nothing concrete to stem it at that time. My prayer is that some of these men will not find themselves listed on the wrong side of the records when the history of Nigeria is revisited in the future”, Thompson said.  Fulani agenda worse than what OBJ painted -Ohanaeze However, the Pan Igbo sociocultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, said the occurrences in the last few months are an indication of a problem that is worse than the alarm Obasanjo raised while arguing that the Fulanisation agenda is real. Expressed support for the former President Olusegun Obasanjo, the group opined that the pattern of increasing insecurity and killings in Nigeria and beyond suggests ‘fulanisation’ of the country and ‘islamisation’ of Africa. Speaking with Saturday Telegraph, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze Indigbo, Mazi Chuks Ibegbu, said instead of castigating Obasanjo, those responsible for protecting the lives and property of the citizens should find solution to stem the tide. He said: “Obasanjo despite his minuses and weaknesses, you can’t take him for granted, you can’t dismiss some of his statements and some of his pronunciations.  This is because he is among few Nigerian leaders that have seen it all through the military, through the civilian. “So he knows the Nigerian society in and out. He knows our problems, our challenges. So nobody should dismiss what Obasanjo said. I understand some people are condemning it, some people are saying he is trying to divide the country; the country is already divided, the country is already fragmented into different persuasions, so its left for those that are responsible for what he characterized to repent and make Nigeria a better place. “Inasmuch as the phrase he used, some people may not like it, fulanisation and islamization; the fact on the ground is that these things are happening. Armed Fulani herdsmen have constituted a menace in the past years; they have killed so many people and supported by the powers that be and there has not been firm effort to stem the tide. So if he used that phrase, fulanisation and islamisation, nobody should castigate him”, the group said.  OBJ, agent of division -Balarabe Musa  In a swift reaction, an elder statesman and a former governor of old Kaduna state, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, described Obasanjo as an agent of division and a trouble maker. Faulting Obasanjo’s statement that insurgency was being used for the Fulanisation and Islamisation of the country, Musa alleged that imperialists might be sponsoring the former president to distabilise the country.  “Unfortunately, Obasanjo would be making himself worse than what people already suspect about him, because already people suspect him to be self-centered, people suspect him to be a trouble maker. Now this latest statement he has made   contradicts everything he has said before on the same issue. “This Obasanjo is the same person who in the early days of Boko Haram had the confidence that he could negotiate between the Federal Government and the Boko Haram. He even went to Maiduguri to do that, he must have known Boko Haram sufficiently enough to have the confidence to negotiate with them.”  Musa said. He went further to say that the statements had shown that Boko Haram do not represent anything that could be identified, “yet the same Obasanjo now says that Boko Haram is Islamisation and Fulanisation of Nigeria, this is very stupid, because what he is saying now is not consistent with what he has been saying before. “With the caliber of Obasanjo, and apparently an informed person because of his experience, why should he contradict himself so badly and at the risk of dividing the nation? “It shows that everyone should be careful with Obasanjo. Nigerians should take what he has said with justified suspicion, he is the most dangerous agent of division in Nigeria now. Because of his experience and the fact that he was the Head of State on two occasions, apparently he is the most dangerous individual and leader in Nigeria. “Since he handed over power, he had always treated others like rubbish, in spite of the fact that he was also Head of State, so what kind of man is this? You see what I don’t want to happen is for people to see Obasanjo as an agent of subversion in Nigeria, I don’t want us to go to that extent, because all this insecurity, negative state of the nation in Nigeria, the most critical analysis of it is that it arises from international imperialism that wants to distabilize Nigeria. “So that Nigeria cannot be stronger than it is today. Because I can tell you that all those who can assess critically the whole situation can tell you that within the next 20 years, if we have the right kind of system and leadership Nigeria can be one of the five leading advanced countries in the world. “Everybody knows imperialism doesn’t want that, and imperialism will engage anything to make sure that Nigeria does not become what it can be, but I don’t want people to suspect that Obasanjo is one of the agents of distabilisation in Nigeria and to make sure that Nigeria does not get to where it should be.