A 23 year-old Palmatah Mutah, one of the 276 schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram insurgents at Government Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State in 2014, yesterday earned an associate degree from a community college in the United States of America (USA). This was disclosed to Saturday Telegraph yesterday by an international human rights lawyer, Mr. Emmanuel Ogebe, who financed her studies in United States. Mutah graduated five years, one month and three days after the horrific mass abductions that sparked global outrage and ignited the #Bringbackourgirls campaign. It would be recalled that Mutah who escaped on April 14, 2014 night by jumping out of a truck conveying the kidnapped girls from the school hostel becomes the first escapee Chibok girl in the world to obtain an associate degree from an institution abroad. Mutah proved to be an exceptional candidate and after just one year in a two-year programme in the US meant to enable her complete her high secondary school education, she took a community college entrance examination where she came tops. She was the only one out of 10 Chibok girls sponsored to study in the United States by Ogebe that made it to the Community College within the first year of arrival. Her elated benefactor, Ogebe said: “The graduation of Palmatah is a highpoint of five years of toil and travail. Weeping may endure for a night but joy comes in the morning. “She is an illustration of the millions of brilliant kids in Nigeria undiscovered for opportunity but for tragedy and even then until personal vision and intervention. “The government of Nigeria got over $25 million because of the Chibok incident but didn’t send her to America. The US government didn’t spend one dime on her. An American NGO raised $1 million from the Chibok story and did not spend one dime on her. Yet, through it all, by the special grace of God she has made it today. “She has been a worthy ambassador of Nigeria and of Chibok and especially of the still missing 112 classmates. I am especially thankful to God for vindicating and honouring our sacrifices and struggles for her. Some people said they were not ready or worthy of America but we took the risk all the same. She has proven that any child with the right attitude can reach altitudes.” Ogebe added that: “Interestingly, of all the 11 schoolgirls we flew into America in 2014, in the largest airlift of Nigerian victims, she was the only one who personally flew with me. The first three arrived together by themselves then she and I flew in from Abuja a few weeks later. “At the airport, the immigration officer asked her if she knew me in an effort to determine if she was being trafficked. She confirmed that she knew me. That was my first experience of anything like that but it was the beginning of a wild adventure that has resulted in today’s success. “I think it is a special touch from God that the very one schoolgirl out of 11 who personally travelled with me from Nigeria to America is the one who came out tops. For that I am grateful. I am also grateful to those who helped us support her these past few years. “Mutah lost her dad while she was here in America for her studies. My joy is that I was able to take her home to visit him not knowing that it would be the last time she would see him. “Yet, in spite of her loss, she worked hard to make a success of herself. Her dad must be smiling from heaven at his daughter’s achievement today. “At the graduation ceremony of her college, which is the 14th largest in America, Mutah was one of less than 100 students on international visas from 45 countries to graduate. During the recognition of special classes of students, she stood up among those who speak more than two languages and those who were the first graduates in their families.”