 Protesting Gbaygi youths yesterday blocked the ever-busy Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Expressway in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The protesters have been locking horns with the military over a parcel of land in Tungan Maje area of the FCT. The protesters defied all security interventions and occupied the roads for about an hour, a situation that created gridlock and forced air passengers including the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, to be stranded.  Osinbajo’s security details battled vehemently to clear the traffic for their principal.  One of the leaders of the youth, Ezekiel Dalhatu, said the military’s continued occupation of their ancestral land illegally was because the FCT had refused to recognise the rights of the indigenous people. He said the protest was to tell the government that the people should be given their proper place in the territory, and must not be treated as second class citizens. According to him, the indigenes cannot remain quiet in the face of the injustice being meted out to them by the government. Dalhatu said that taking over of their land without giving them alternative land was dehumanising.  He said: “We came here to express our displeasure with the way the government and the military are seizing our land without compensation and treating us like second class citizens in our own land.  “We are saying that henceforth, the position of the Minister of FCT should be held by an indigene instead of an outsider. “We also want the government to treat us with respect because they keep taking over our land and pushing us into the interior without proper infrastructure.” Another protestor, who identified himself as Fred Ekeng, said that the protest was to demand for recognition as indigenous people of the FCT.  “We came here to express our displeasure with the way the government and the military are seizing our lands without compensation and treating us like second class citizens in our own land,” he said.  The Vice President has promised to meet with leaders of the FCT indigenous community over the alleged takeover of their land by the military. The vice president’s message was conveyed by his spokesman, Laolu Akande, via his twitter handle.  “On his way to the airport now, Osinbajo runs into a group of FCT residents protesting alleged land takeover by the military. “He gets down; engages the people; proposing to meet with their leaders on the matter and intervene with a view to finding an amicable solution,” he tweeted. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army has declared that it legally acquired its landed property in parts of the FCT and advised indigenes protesting alleged land grab to channel their complaints to the appropriate quarters.  The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai stated this in reaction to protest by some indigenes, who barricaded the Airport road, alleging the army grabbed their land. Buratai spoke at the foundation laying cer  emony for construction of the “Army Command Estate and Headquarters, Directorate of Army Legal Services” at Muhammadu Buhari Cantonment at Giri on the airport road. He said the action of the protesters would not yield any result. “This particular estate (land) was granted to the Nigerian Army in 1979.  However, we got the official allocation with the Right of Occupancy (C of O) in 1997 by the Federal Capital Administration. “In 2011, when all land in the territory were revoked and owners of land were directed to re-certify their land, the Nigerian Army along with other services, Navy and Air Force, we due apply for the re-certification. “We paid the dues that was meant for the re-certification and got our acknowledgment. That is to say that we have legally and timely certify this particular land,” Buratai said.