…Umahi orders probe, prosecution of culprits  Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIOs) yesterday reportedly killed a motorist in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. The victim, Chief Geoffrey Mgbada, who was a member of Abakaliki Capital Territory Development Board (ACTDA) and secretary of the State Elders Council, was allegedly killed by the VIOs during stop-and-search by the VIOs. The incident, which occurred on Presco-Ezza Road, attracted a crowd to the scene. The deceased, said to be driving with his wife, was intercepted by the VIOs and an argument reportedly ensued between them. This made one of the VIOs to push Mgbada who fell and hit his head on the road and died. His body has been deposited in the mortuary of the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. His son, Chijioke Mgbada, called for the ban of the VIOs. Chijioke said the VIOs had been terrorising motorists and constituting nuisance on the streets and roads in the metropolis. He said: “I was preparing to go to school, Ebonyi State University, when my mother came in shouting. She said I should start going to the teaching hospital; that my father fainted; that he was beaten to coma by the VIOs “When I got there, it was a different thing. My father was dead already. The government should ban VIOs and the person that did this should be sentenced to life imprisonment. “My father was an elder in this state and he was well known. Even His Excellency knows him. He is a member of ACTDA and he was also the secretary of the Elders Council.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident and described the deceased as a highly placed man in the state. She disclosed that the two VIOs who hit the man leading to his death were the ones who took him to the hospital where he died. Odah explained that the two VIOs had been arrested by the police over the incident. She said: “This morning (yesterday), I got a call that a man was allegedly killed by VIO officers and the incident was attracting crowd in the hospital. I quickly rushed to the hospital and to my greatest surprise; he was a highly placed man in the society. “His wife was not in the mood to talk but she said that the VIOs stopped them but instead of going ahead to check their vehicle, they pushed her husband who hit his head on the pavement. “She was quickly taken away. But one of his relatives who held the man between the neck and the head touched blood which means that he was badly hit. “The two VIO officers were the same people that took the man with his own vehicle to the hospital. The police have arrested them and they are in detention already.” Meanwhile, Governor Dave Umahi has condemned Mgbada’s killing and called for thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding his death. Umahi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Emmanuel Uzor, described the death of the elder statesman as callous and ordered full investigation into the circumstances surrounding his death. He said: “The governor on hearing about the death of Chief Mgbada expressed great sadness and ordered the Commissioner of Police to arrest and prosecute the suspects who paraded themselves as VIO officers. Let it be known that the governor in a town hall meeting with Ebonyians proscribed all task force agents working under any guise using the state government as cover. “In the proscription order, the governor also dissolved all revenue and tax agents in the state at all levels with a promise to convoke another town hall meeting where a new tax and other revenue will be deliberated and agreed upon and the governor is yet to convene this meeting before this ugly incident.  “The governor is saddened by this careless death and wishes to dissociate the state government from the illegal activities of the VIO and other task force agents in the state and directs for immediate arrest and prosecution of such illegal tax or revenue agents.”