…says Leicester star needs to learn from Musa, Ighalo
…raises the alarm over Eagles’ goalkeepers   Ex-international Etim Esin has said out-of-favour Super Eagles striker Kelechi Iheanacho should allow anger and hunger galvanise him to a sterling performance at the Nations Cup and use the platform to re-launch his falling career. Iheanacho was included in the Super Eagles squad for the AFCON 2019 camping, a decision that has attracted mixed feeling among the fans; some pundits believe the Leicester City forward does not merit a place in Eagles for the Nations Cup following his unimpressive showing for his English Premier League side and a recent lacklustre run in the national team. Esin said Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr had made a sound judgement by giving Iheanacho the chance to fight for shirt in the team for AFCON, insisting that the forward is more experienced than some of the youngsters in the squad and could be the difference in Egypt. He said all the negatives comments regarding the player could activate a positive anger and hunger that would spur him to great performance at the Nations Cup. The former Lokeren star said Iheancho could learn from other strikers like Ahmed Musa and Ighalo who passed through such bad patch in recent time but were able to shrug it off and have now become the darlings of the fans. “Iheancho is suffering from confidence crisis and the coach has done very well by giving him the opportunity to re-launch his career. Don’t be surprised if he becomes the Eagles joker in the Nations Cup; he has bottled up anger because of the negative stuffs that have been said about him, I was a player, I can imagine how he feels now, but he can turn that to hunger that will help the national team at the end of the day. “He’s not happy that he moved from a big club like Manchester City to Leicester and still can’t play regularly; it is tough for a player but he can bounce back from that and use the Nations Cup to re-launch himself,” he said. Esin lauded the 25-man list for the Nations Cup released by Rohr but he is still sceptical about the goalkeeping department of the team. “We have Alloy Agu as the goalkeeper’s trainer and I expect him to work wonders with the goalies. That area of the team is shaky; we don’t really have a goalkeeper like Peter Rufai and Vincent Enyeama with clout to inspire confidence. The motivation has to come from the back up to the attack and I hope these players will be able to do that in Egypt,” he said.