16 years after Nigeria adopted the Child Rights Act in order to domesticate the international Convention on the Rights of the Child, 11 states in the Northern part of the country are yet to pass the Act into law. This has exposed the insensitivity of those at the helm in these states to the plight of children. AKEEM NAFIU reports  The Federal Government’s adoption of the Child Rights’ Act- a legal documentation for the protection of children rights and responsibilities, in September 2003, was with a view to domesticating the international Convention on the Rights of the Child. The country which signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) in 1991, and with support from the United Nations Children Education Fund (UNICEF), took steps to domesticate the UNCRC into a national law, thus giving birth to the Child Rights Act in 2003. However, states across the country are expected to adopt and adapt the Act for domestication as state laws because issues of child rights protection are on the residual list of the Constitution. This clothed the states with exclusive responsibility and jurisdiction to make laws relevant to their specific situations. State laws hindering the rights of the child are expected to be amended or annulled as may be required to conform with the Act and the UNCRC. 16 years on, only 25 states of the federation have domesticated the Child Rights Act by passing it into law in their domain. This means that millions of children in the other 11 states in Nigeria still do not have the appropriate legal framework for the protection of their rights. It is also disheartening that millions of children in the states that had passed the law are not properly catered for because the laws have not been fully implemented. Already, 11 states yet to domesticate the Act are Bauchi, Yobe, Kano, Sokoto, Adamawa, Borno, Zamfara, Gombe, Katsina, Kebbi and Jigawa.  Opposition to Child Rights Act The first elaborate Bill on children’s rights in 1993 under the military government was shot down because of opposition from religious groups and traditionalists. A special committee was subsequently set up to “harmonize the children’s Bill in line with Nigerian religious and customary beliefs. But sadly, the Bill was again rejected by the parliament in October 2002 on the grounds of its contents being at variance with Islamic values, traditions and culture. Particularly, oppositions were raised to a provision in the Act which set 18 years as the minimum age for marriage. This was said to be incompatible with religious and cultural traditions in various parts of the country, especially in the North, where girls were married out at a tender age. The parliament’s decision to drop the Bill for the second time elicited criticisms from many national and international Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), as well as other rights groups in Nigeria and this forced the legislators to reconsider its decision to oppose the Child’s Right Bill.  Benefits of Child Rights Act The Act defines a child as one who has not attained the age of 18 years. It has three main purposes. These are: incorporating the rights of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights into the national law; provision of the responsibilities of government agencies associated with the law and integration of children-focused legislation into one comprehensive law It also acts as legislation against human trafficking since it forbids a child from being separated from his or her parents against their will, except where it is in the best interests of such child. The Act consolidated all laws (including national and international laws) relating to children into a single piece of legislation that specified the rights and responsibilities of children. It also spelt out the duties and obligations of government, parents and other authorities, organizations and bodies towards children. The Act also provides that a child shall be given such protection and care as is necessary for his or her wellbeing, and retain the right to survival and development and to a name and nationality at birth.  Agege LG’s example Bored out by complaints over non-implementation of the Child Rights law in Lagos state, authorities at Agege local government has set up a 25-member committee to ensure the effectiveness of the legislation in the area. The action is expected to address concerns over the implementation of the Act which was signed into law in Lagos by former Governor Babatunde Fashola in 2007. Speaking at the committee’s inauguration last week Monday, the Chairman of Agege Local Government Area (LGA), Alhaji Ganiyu Egunjobi, noted that the event has underlined the council’s commitment to the welfare of the children in the area. Egunjobi who was represented at the occasion by his Chief of Staff, Mr Oriade Ademola, said everything possible will be done to advance the course of children in the council. In her speech, the Coordinator, Rule of Law and Anti-corruption (RoLAC), Mrs Abimbola Ushie, disclosed that the event represents a milestone for RoLAC. She said: “The establishment of the Local Government Child‘s Right Implementation Committee (LGCRIC) is a milestone for us at RoLAC. “This is so because it supports Section 268 of the Child’s Act which provides that such committee should be established at local government level. “This committee is charged with the responsibility of initiating actions that will ensure observance and popularisation of Child’s Rights Act at grassroots level.
“This is the first of its kind in Lagos, prior to now, only the state implementation committee existed.  “RoLAC is proud to be part of this laudable development and we charge you all to be committed to ensuring the rights of every child are protected.”
Also speaking at the event, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Mrs Bola Balogun, noted that the committee’s inauguration was as a result of a stakeholders’ meeting held with some council chairmen. Balogun, who was represented by a Director in the ministry, Mrs. Funlola Peters-Popoola, lauded Agege local government officials for taking the bull by the horn in their quest to ensure that children’s rights are not infringed upon. “On behalf of the teeming number of children in Lagos State whose cause you are championing, I want to say thank you for this bold initiative.
“This is the duty we owe humanity and God, so that the children can in turn impact positively on the society,” she said. Lawyers speak
Some members of the inner and outer Bar have also been speaking on the need for state governors to ensure that children’s rights in their respective domain are not trampled upon.
They expressed serious concerns about the refusal of some states to pass the Child Rights Act into law saying their action is capable of derailing the good intentions of the legislation. The lawyers opined that a piece of legislation like the Child Rights Act should automatically have general application to states once it is adopted by the Federal Government. Speaking on the issue, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Mike Ahamba, said legislations such as the Child Rights Act ought to have a national outlook, giving no other option to state governments than to adopt it. He said: “I don’t know why we must wait for states to domesticate the law before the law can be implemented. Who says that what was adopted by the Federal Government cannot be implemented in the states? A law that was adopted by the Federal Government should be applicable to every state. I don’t know why laws will be made in such a way to give states freedom to adopt or not to adopt. There are certain things that should have a national outlook and this is one of them. “These states that have been abusing children through their conducts, purportedly on God’s behalf, are not likely to domesticate the Act. It’s because of selfish interests that the Act is not domesticated in these states. “I think the National Assembly should come in and see what should be done to guarantee that the law is domesticated by all states to avoid trampling on any child’s rights. Besides, rights organizations should also rise to the occasion. A lot needs to be done by them to ensure the proper implementation of the law. This is very important”. Another silk, Mr. Seyi Sowemimo, linked the predicament of every Nigerian child to the economic and cultural challenges. “The failure of those Northern states in passing the Act into law up till this moment is highly condemnable. But, the fact is that what children suffer in our society is also part of the economic and cultural reality. “You found out that most often, people gave birth to many children that they cannot adequately catered for. Therefore, when you see those children hawking around, that is part of the nation’s economic reality. Once government cannot provide enough employment and social amenities, there is no way it can enforce this kind of law, to ensure that each child is accorded his or her rights. “In parts of the North, some parents may prefer their children going to Quaranic school rather than having western education. Even, for the girl child, the parents will be hiding under religious doctrine to trample on her rights. “So, I believe these reforms will only come gradually and I think it is a good thing that we are thinking about some of these issues. Eventually, there will be a road map which will make all states in the country to see the need to embrace the Act and by then, they will be in a position to implement it”, the silk said. To Dr. Biodun Layonu (SAN), there is a need for the Federal Government to create more awareness on the need for states to domesticate the Act. He said: “The default of those states is largely due to cultural reasons as in that part of Nigeria, there is an acceptance and encouragement of early girl marriage and a lower level of literacy relative to other states especially in the southern part of Nigeria.
“The solution is to raise the level and standard of education as to foster a better understanding of the objectives of the Child Rights Act.” A former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Adekunle Ojo, noted that peculiarities in values and people’s beliefs in the Northern part of the country are the major reasons behind the non-domestication of the Act. “With what is happening on this Act at the moment, it seems states are adopting only what is suitable to them while jettisoning what is not suitable to them. This indicates that values, virtues and what each state considers to be important are not the same. “For instance, in some parts of the Northern states, female children at tender age are still being betrothed to men who are old enough to be their father. This is one of the implications of not domesticating the Child Rights Act. In essence, I want to say that the non-domestication of the Act in some states in the North might not be unconnected with their traditions and values. They don’t see anything wrong in early marriage. I remember the story of a Senator from Zamfara State who married an underage girl.
“The sad thing is that even in states where the Act is already domesticated, the level of implementation leaves much to be desired. It appears that lip services are being paid to the enforcement of the law. “Children who are supposed to be in school are still seen roaming the streets hawking around and in the process they are pushed into other immoral activities. Structures that are supposed to be in place for proper administration are non-existent. Government across states is not sensitive enough to the plight of children. “A way of enforcing the law, particularly in states where it had been domesticated is for judges to activate some provisions of the law that has international dimension which is binding on Nigeria. This will leave the states concern with no option than to ensure that the law works,” Ojo said. A rights activist, Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, called on rights organization to rise up to the occasion by ensuring that all states adopt Child Rights Act and abide by its tenets. He said: “The first point to note is to understand the benefits of the Child Rights Act. If you appraise its benefits, you will be able to understand the implication of not domesticating it in those states that you talked about.
“However, let me point out that our hands are not entirely tied with the non-passage of the Act into law in those states. It is the same campaign that is going on with respect to the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act. “As I speak to you, there are two cases at the Supreme Court. One of them takes the view that it is immaterial whether respective states have not domesticated it. It has general application. That was the judgement of the Court of Appeal, Benin Division. “However, the other one takes the view that until when the House of Assembly of respective states adopts and promulgate it into law, it will not be applicable. So, we are eagerly waiting for the apex court’s verdict. In actual fact, we intend to take a cue from that with respect to this Child Rights Act and some other legislation. “Having said that, by way of clarifications, it is desirable that such legislation that has direct positive impact on the lives of the citizens of this country, whether children or the aged are made to apply generally to all states of the federation irrespective of whether it is domesticated or not.
“Again, the argument is there as to whether the general application rule is not limited to external legislations, treaties or conventions that are entered into by Nigeria and need to be domesticated in the country. The mischief inherent in the character of our states is what usually led us into all these arguments each time there is a progressive law that is meant to advance the people’s welfare. “Under the Child Rights Act as applicable to so many states, including Lagos, it is an offence for a child under school age to be out of school. It is the responsibility and duty of the parents to ensure that such child is sent to school. Child labour is a frowned at by the law. Even as far as health and other things adequately captured in that law, therefore, this whole argument of non-implementation affects the welfare of Nigerians, particularly children. The good news is that we as a rights organization will take the bull by the horn on the issue.” A Lagos based lawyer, Mr. Ige Asemudara, expressed his displeasure at the refusal of state executives in the Northern part of the country to adopt the Act saying they needed the law more than any other part of the country.
“It is not a very good thing. It is quite unfortunate. There is no part of Nigeria that needs the Child Rights Law like the Northern states. “In that part of the country, you find the highest number of out-of-school children, you find the highest number of children, begging, hawking on the streets, you find the highest number of child marriage, you find the highest number of children coerced into militancy and insurgency.
“The north needs the law more than any part of this country. The abuses are too much. The law needs to step in to save the Nigerian child. In order to bring the culprits who abuse the rights of the children to book, the law should be passed. “There are some anti-children practices that must be stopped or at least regulated in the north particularly and in Nigeria in general. We love all our people whether in the south or in the north, so it is our collective duty that every Nigerian child wherever he or she lives must be protected by the Child Rights Law,” he said.