“I cried because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet.” “I cried because my job doesn’t pay me well, until I met someone who had no job.” “I complained that my mates were all married, until I saw some of my mates lying down lifeless in the mortuary.” “I was depressed that no man was asking for my hand in marriage till I saw a beautiful damsel at the psychiatric home.” Friends, there is always something to be grateful for. You may think your situation is the worst till you have an idea of what the other fellow is going through; then, you’d discover that his case is “worster” than yours, and perhaps, yours is like “a learner” compare to his. You are far better than many out there, trust me. The earlier you know this, the better you are grateful for the seemingly little things in your life. There is always something to be grateful for. Even in the midst of crises, there is always something to be grateful for. You might have failed or even messed up. But it’s time to look at the brighter angle of the situation and life. Look for something to be grateful for; get up, dust your clothes and move up. “A living dog is better than a dead lion” says the holy book. If a living dog could still have hope, how much more you? We live in a time where depression, frustration, rejection and suicidal thoughts are the order of the day. Things that are happening around us are enough to discourage one. If you allow them creep into your mind, I bet, they’ll knock you out. You have to be strong and tough. But much more, always look for something to be thankful for – that’s the antidote. Being is a rear privilege, celebrate it. To be able to even read this is another great privilege. Reason being it’s possible to be alive but not alive. It takes grace and mercies to stand meh, always celebrate it. Recently, I was in a serious traffic gridlock somewhere in Lagos, and an ambulance was trying to wriggle its way out of it; apparently, there was a patient in there who was battling for her life. I was privileged to peep through the small opening available on the ambulance, and I saw a woman seriously gasping for breath (I prayed she survived). Take a stroll to the emergency wards of some general hospitals or psychiatric homes around you, you would see reasons to be grateful, trust me. The last time someone was dead, it wasn’t you. The last horrible accident that occurred didn’t claim your life. The last kidnapping story we heard didn’t involve you or your family members. The last time I saw some kids begging for food on the street, I checked and discovered they weren’t your kids. When the devil show you a thousand reasons to be ungrateful, show him a thousand AND ONE reasons you have to be grateful – That’s how you win, friends. Yeah, I know there are challenges yet to be solved and even bills yet to be paid. However, in a situation where the solution is not in sight YET, rather than being depressed or frustrated, be thankful and grateful, at least for LIFE. Only a living person knows what a paying of bills is. “When you thank God for His fingers, then He will show His hands. When you thank Him for His Hands, then you will see His outstretched arms.” – Bishop Oyedepo. It is in acknowledging and showing gratitude for the little He’s done that He’ll do more. What do you do when mosquitoes buzz in your ears? I’m sure you can visualize your reactions. That’s how God feels when we murmur and complain. Stop murmuring, start thanking Him for the things even yet undone. That’s how to stay off frustration and depression. Your present situation is the dream of many out there; you are the picture of their future. This week, find reasons to stay grateful. Be thankful for – eyes that see, ears that hear, nose that smells, legs that walk, hands that touch, kidneys that are functioning, your kids that are attending school (even if school fees are yet to be paid). Etc. Just be thankful sha!
Have a great week.  “I cried because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet.” “I cried because my job doesn’t pay me as much as I wanted, until I met someone who had no job.” “I complained that my mates were all married, until I saw some of… In “Columnists” “I cried because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no feet.” “I cried because my job doesn’t pay me well, until I met someone who had no job.” “I complained that my mates were all married, until I saw some of my mates lying down… In “Columnists” J.T. Kalejaye, Egbemode task staff on hard work It was a glorious moment at New Telegraph Newspapers’ corporate office in Lagos yesterday as management and staff of the organisation held this year’s thanksgiving service to appreciate God for a successful 2017 and the fourth anniversary of the company. The management… In “News”