 Less than a month to the start of the 2019 African Cup of Nations, the Nigeria Football Federation is still at crossroads regarding the funds to prosecute the championship slated for Egypt, New Telegraph can authoritatively report.
Unlike the kind of windfall that characterized the build up to the 2018 FIFA World Cup, the NFF has been in dire strait regarding the preparation for the continental showpiece.
A source at the federation reliably informed our correspondent that the NFF had relied heavily on the support from the corporate sponsors but responses had been below expectation.
The source said the sponsors were unhappy about the recent court cases that have trailed the leadership of the federation and are careful to splash the cash.
“The court cases are really affecting the operation of the NFF; the timing is bad for the Nations Cup because those who are supposed to bring out money have been reluctant and it is about the litigation. Corporate sponsors are always careful about negative developments, it has a way of affecting their image and all these are playing out now.
“The NFF has also approached several state governments who promised to help. I can tell you that Delta State for instance is about to do something but others are yet to disbursed even though promises have been made,” he said.
New Telegraph also learnt that the Federal Government is yet to disburse funds for the competition althopugh the NFF through the ministry had long submitted the budget
“There is so much politics going on regarding that; corruption case is also an issue but the Presidency is not joking with the Eagles’ participation in the event and will disburse the funds soon. The sports minister Solomon Dalung has submitted the budget proposal and it is receiving a special attention, we should get the money soon,” the source said.
Meanwhile, our correspondent learnt that the NFF was set for a stormy session with the Super Eagles when the two parties meet to discuss the players’ bonuses and other allowances for AFCON.
New Telegraph had exclusively reported that the two parties would meet for discussion regarding bonuses when the Eagles converge on Asaba, Delta State for the friendly match with Zimbabwe next month.
One of the players reliably told our correspondent that they would want the NFF to retain the template adopted for the World Cup but New Telegraph learnt that the federation’s proposal was not something close to that.