Two former aides of the outgoing Minister of Communication, Mr. Abdulraheem Adebayo Shittu have dragged him to National Industrial Court, Abuja Division over their N21, 500, 000.00 unpaid salaries and allowances. The aides, Razaq Olubodun and Victor Oluwadamilare, former Personal Assistant (PA) and Special Assistant Media, (SA) respectively in two separate suits filed on their behalf by Adewale Lawal urged the court to compel the Minister to pay their outstanding salaries and allowances which he had denied them while working for him. While Olubodun, in his own suit before the Abuja Division of the National Industrial Court (NIC) numbered NICN/Abj/132/2019 is seeking to recover from the Minister the sum of N9.8million allegedly paid alongside the Minister’s salaries and allowances for 24 months, Oluwadamilare in his suit, NICN/Abj/133/2019 is claiming N11.7m being his outstanding salaries and allowances for 28 months. The duo are seeking the order of court to declare that the non-payment of full salaries and allowances to them for those periods was wrongful, illegal and unconstitutional and that the Minister should be ordered to pay them their unpaid salaries and allowances according to the Federal Government’s directive for payment of aides to the Minister of Federal Republic of Nigeria. Aside this, the claimants are praying the court for an order of payment of N50million to each of them as aggravated damages, as well as, payment of their full taxed costs of the prosecution of the suits. The claimants in their suits dated 20th May, 2019, averred that by their letters of appointments as PA and SA respectively, they were informed that their monthly emolument would be in line with the existing practice for paying PA and SA to Hon. Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, but that the Minister saw it as his own personal affairs. While Olubodun claimed to have received just N1m all through his period of service from the Minister, Oluwadamilare disclosed that he was paid thrice to the tune of N2.3m in his 28 months of service under the Minister, yet, the defendant was alleged to have collected all salaries and allowances belonging to them from the federal government and refused to forward or remit same to them.
No date has been fixed for the hearing of the case.