For more than four hours, aviation unions shut down the headquarters of the Nigerian Civil Aviation (NCAA) over what the unions in the aviation industry described as backwardness of new organogram they said does not encourage career progression, but gives room for redundancy and loss of jobs. Consequently, the unions, comprising the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP), and National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) issued a seven-day ultimatum to Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to reverse its position. The unions vowed to embark on a warning strike if their demands are not met. The protesters, who carried placards with various inscriptions, accused the Federal Ministry of Transportation of trying to create redundancy in the NCAA through the merger of key directorates in the agency. They also decried the non-promotion of some NCAA staff for well over three years due to lack of vacancy, which they claimed had affected the morale of workers. In his speech, the President of ATSSSAN, Mr. Illitrus Ahmadu, condemned the collapse of the directorates which included: Consumer Protection, Licensing Standards, General Aviation, Aeromedicals and Legal Services, in the new organogram. Ahmadu, represented by Mrs. Sarah Rimdams, First Deputy National President, ATSSSAN, said that the move was a flagrant violation of the agreement entered between the aviation unions and the Ministerial Committee set up to resolve the vacancy issue. “Rather than address the vacancy issue to enable the promotion of our officers, they elected to embark on mergers of Directorates/ Departments and the total constriction of the obsolete NCAA organogram. “This will annihilate several existing manned positions of Assistant General Managers, Deputy General Managers, General Managers and Directors in the various Directorates. “These to us, is a classic recipe for future redundancy which we will not accept,” he said. Ahmadu said the aviation stakeholders should urgently review the move in the interest of industrial harmony.