Hundreds of school children in Jos, Plateau State, yesterday gathered and prayed for Leah Sharibu as she clocked 16  Leah was abducted in 2014 by Boko Haram at Dapchi village in Borno State. The children ranging from 10 to 16 years from four private schools – Unique Schools and College; Christ the Redeemers College, Jos; Ebomi High School and Children Academy – came out to mark Leah’s birthday and pray for her safe return. The children also urged the Federal Government to expedite action and ensure she is released and reunited with her family. The children, however, sang a birthday song for Leah and carried placards with various inscriptions, encouraging Leah to continue holding on to her faith, urging her parents to be hopeful as well as calling on the Federal Government to secure schools so that innocent children are not made to suffer for the crimes they know nothing about. One the children, Precious Isa Elbuba (16), from Ebomi High School, Jos, appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to help ensure that Leah is released to continue with her education. “We are here to pray for our sister, Leah. We want to assure her that God will never abandon her. we pray God to touch the hearts of those who abducted her to release her,” Precious said. Another child, Temitope Adeyemi (14), from Christ the Redeemer’s College, urged the Federal Government to ensure that all children that were abducted with Leah be releases. “We are calling on the Federal Government to do their best for her release so that her parents’ minds would be at rest and also continue with her education,” Temitope said. Speaking during a mini-rally in Jos yesterday, the President of Leah Foundation, Dr. Gloria Samdi-Puldu, appealed to the Federal Government to honour its promises of freeing Leah from captivity. She said: “If you can remember in 2018 on the 19th of February, Leah Sharibu was abducted alongside over 100 other schoolgirls in Dapchi, she was 14 years then, she clocked 15 in captivity. This year, she is 16, we are gathering here to mark her day and send a message to her that despite the fact that she has been left in captivity because she refused to renounce her faith, we are proud of her and standing with her.” Meanwhile, Christians from various denominations across Plateau State and Nigeria led by the ECWA President, Rev. Stephen Panya Baba, held prayers at the ECWA Headquarters Church for the release of Leah.