Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba was Senate Leader in the 7th National Assembly and the immediate past chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). In this interview, he speaks on the jostle for the leadership of 9th National Assembly and outcome of the Cross River Central Senatorial District, among other issues. CLEMENT JAMES reports   What would you want to see in the 9th National Assembly?
I will start with a wish and that wish is that we see a stable and cohesive National Assembly. Stable not in the sense that they pander unduly to the executive but stable in the sense that at least they are consistent with their positions on the relationship between the legislation and development because the two must go together. The legislature must work with the executive to deliver on policies and programmes. So, one is hoping and wishing that we see a stable National Assembly that comes up with a legislative agenda that it would follow very strictly to drive its next four years. My biggest hope and wish for them is stability. There have been lots of intrigues going on in the National Assembly with respect to who will lead both chambers. What is your opinion on these intrigues?
What I would say is that if you look at the National Assembly from 1999, whenever a leadership appears to have been foisted on it from outside, the consequence is instability. The converse has also been the case. The moment they believe that a leadership is homegrown and internally generated, you will see stability. Whichever way the party in power is approaching the issue, it must ensure that it does not create the impression that it is foisting leadership on the National Assembly. It must approach the issue of leadership in such a manner that the National Assembly itself takes over its thinking on the leadership, own that thinking and drive the process as an internally generated process. If it appears that they are being foisted, then we have lost it. Instability would be a consequence.
There are a number of bills which the out-going National Assembly passed, but were not assented to by the President. Why do you think these bills were not signed into law?
It is not the first time bills have been passed and not signed. If you look from 1999, most members’ bills were never signed into law. Those that were signed into law were very few. In our time, the one that I recall is the Freedom of Information Bill and the Anti-Same Sex Marriage bills. The executive has always been interested in executive bills. So, the National Assembly must find a way of engaging the executive to also see that members’ bills are also as important as the executive bills. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has threatened to field a candidate to run for the Senate presidency. How feasible is that?
The first thing is that there is no law that says the majority party must produce the leadership of the National Assembly. It is only when it comes to Senate leader and House leader that the rules say it must come from the party with the majority. Members of the National Assembly can decide that they want a Senate president from a party with one member. It is their right and entitlement. How do you see the recent Supreme Court judgement sacking all APC candidates in Zamfara State?
I have not seen the judgement. I did not see the matter in such details as to know what the detailed facts of the case are. But, let me say that the moment the Supreme Court makes pronouncement on a matter; that is final. The Supreme Court is always right because it is final. It is not final because it is always right. The moment it is has made pronouncement on a matter, that is the end of the matter and you must concede that they are right at that point. For me, as I said, I cannot comment on the judgement because I have not seen it, what we see are summaries in the media and of course the media would give it their own slant.
But, one lesson is important from the Zamfara issue and it is not just a lesson for the APC, it is also a lesson for all political parties; that impunity has its limits in a democracy. Secondly, under our constitution, we do not have provision for independent candidates. So, every candidate must run on the platform of a political party. That means that it is the parties that drive our democracy. Now, if you do not have internal democracy, you cannot give democracy to the rest of the country. So, the biggest lesson from the Zamfara judgement, and I think at the end of the day it is going to be the most beneficial judgement for all political parties, is that we must learn that impunity has its limits and that secondly, for us to grow as a democracy, the political parties must ensure internal democracy. Do you agree with the National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) that banks should send local government funds directly to the councils?
The constitution is very clear. There is a local government joint account where the state governments are supposed to contribute. First of all, the constitution provides for a local government joint account in which the respective states are expected to make their own contributions to the funding of local governments. What was the intention of the constitution? The intention of the constitution was that local governments should be adequately funded because it was recognized as a tier of government and it is not just a tier, perhaps, it is the most important because that is the one that identifies with the grassroots.
What has been our experience in the last couple of years? From 1999, if we use Cross River State for example, when the local governments were being funded, you could see some activities, but when that funding stopped, the local government system died and so much pressure started mounting on the state government and political office holders. The first implication is that it breeds corruption because the moment you begin to put elected officials under so much pressure, they begin to look beyond their legitimate earnings to satisfy the demands of their constituents. Secondly, I grew up in an age when we saw local government doing so much. The waterworks in Ikom was built by the council.
The only hospital in my local government was a joint effort between the local government and the Catholic Church. What you now call Government Secondary School, Ikom was built by the local government council. For me, anything that would guarantee funding for the local governments because they are the closet tier to the electorate, I will support and I believe that is the intention and spirit of the 1999 Constitution. Having said so, we must also acknowledge that in those days when councils were being funded, especially in this current republic, there was a lot of irresponsibility on the part of the councils. I remember in the early days of this republic, you go to London and you run into people and they tell you a council chairman has asked them to look for a house to buy. They were buying houses everywhere.
So, there must be consequential checks on how these monies are spent when they get to the local governments. We should not just assume that the constitution intends that local government should be funded. We have seen local governments when they were properly funded in this country and we have seen also the irresponsibility that went with it. So, there must be a mechanism put in place for strict accountability, when these monies go to the local governments. So, for me, I support the proper funding of the local governments. I support the NFIU position, but at the same time, I also support a situation where local governments are made more accountable than we have known them to be in the past.
I don’t think the NFIU is saying anything outside the constitution. It is saying that pay this monies into the local government joint account. In the recent past, has this money been going into that account? I don’t think the NFIU’s position is inconsistent with the spirit of the constitution. Can you comment on why you lost the senatorial election?
For the election, we are in court, so one has to be very careful about the kind of comment one makes. But I read on social media and I have since confirmed that in two of the local governments, Obubra and Etung, they said they cannot find the results. So, if you cannot find the results, on what basis did you declare a winner? A lot went wrong in the last election and I think a proper post mortem should be done after the tribunal has disposed of all the matters. Why do you think President Muhammadu Buhari has refused to intervene in internal crisis of the party, like the one in Zamfara State?
I was having a conversation with a colleague of mine and he said the National Assembly should be part-time. And I reminded him that once upon a time in this country, it was indeed part time because when I was in primary school, my headmaster was a member of the House of Representatives and he used to go when they were sitting and will come back when they were not. Once upon a time in this country, we had a president who was not just president but dominated every inch of space in his political party and Nigerians complained that he was overbearing.
Today, we have a president who says okay, let party affairs be handled by the party, so that he can concentrate on governance and Nigerians are still complaining. So, there is no proper formula to it. But the important thing like I said earlier is that the parties are the engines of our democracy. It is not the president. You must contest an election on the platform of a political party. So, the real engine of our democracy is our political parties and the parties must ensure that they guarantee internal democracy because you cannot give what you don’t have. Also they should be able to address purely party issues.
The president is the leader of the party, but he is a nominal leader. You cannot run the party and run the country. So, I will like to remind us that once upon a time, we had the other extreme of a president, who dominated not just the executive but every inch of space in this country and Nigerians complained. Today, we have the other side and they are still complaining. So, we must keep engaging ourselves until we find a proper mix of a chief executive who is also a party leader.