 Justice Nicholas Oweibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos has sentenced a hard drug dealer, Ejikeme Samuel, to two years imprisonment for attempting to export 2.1 kilograms of a banned hard drug, Methamphetamine, outside the country. Ejikeme bagged the jail term following his conviction after he owned up to the alleged offence. He was docked before the court on a count charge of dealing in the banned drug by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The convict, according to the NDLEA lawyer, Mr. Ibrahim Abu, was arrested with the banned substance on 25th February, 2018, during outward clearance of passengers on Ethiopian Airlines flight to Mombasa, Kenya, at the departure hall of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja-Lagos. Abu while reviewing the facts of the matter after the convict had pleaded guilty to the charge, tendered several exhibits which included, his statements, the sum of $200 as well as the the seized drugs. The convict’s lawyer, Bright Aikhegbe, did not opposed to the tendering and admissibility of the exhibits. Following the tendering and admissibility of the exhibits and guilty plea of the convict, the prosecutor, Mr. Abu, urged the court to pronounce him guilty as charged and sentence him accordingly. But his lawyer, Mr. Aikhegbe, in his allocutos, pleaded with the court to tamper justice with mercy in sentencing his client, as he is a first time offender and that he did not waste the precious time of the court. The lawyer added that Ejikeme is now remorseful and has vowed to stay away from such act if given second chance. Upon listening to the plea for mercy of the convict’s lawyer, Justice Oweibo sentenced the convict to two years imprisonment. The judge however ordered that the convict’s jail term should commence from the date of his arrest. The charge against the convict reads: “That you Ejikeme Samuel, Male, Adult on or about the 25th February, 2018 during the outward clearance of Passengers on Ethiopian Airlines flight to Mombassa, Kenya; at Gate ‘C’ of the Departure Hall of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos without lawful authority exported 2.1 kilogrammes of Methamphetamine, a Psychotropic Substance, listed under International Control and you thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 11(b) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act, Cap. N30, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004”.