 A Canadian Non-Governmental Organisation ( NGO),MEDA has held a food fair for 50 women in Dass local government area of Bauchi state who were trained on Soya Beans processing and value addition.
The training according to MEDA was to encourage the adoption of improved ways of farming, processing and introduction of Soya Beans as a component in meals because of its nutritional values.
In an address at the food fair by the graduating women trainees, Magajin Garin Dass, Musa Maleka who represented the Emir, Alhaji Usman Bilyaminu Othman commended MEDA for training the women on how to be innovative in the way they process Soya Beans and put it in every day meal.
According to him, MEDA has empowered women in the emirate through the various components of its programme in the state. He called on the trained women to utilise and teach other women what they learnt during the training. Maleka promised that,Dass emirate will continue to support MEDA in its quest to make the lives of women and the girl-child better in Dass in particular and Bauchi State in general.
Also Speaking, a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer on Home Grown School Feeding Programme, Mohammed Umar Chinade commended MEDA for the campaign to introduce Soya Beans as a Protein alternative in school children’s meal.
According to him, the introduction of Soya Beans into the School Feeding menu will be immense benefit in the state as it will have a multiplier effect on the economic wellbeing of all the people involved in the Soya Beans value chain in the state.
He disclosed that, over 600,000 children across 2,500 schools in Bauchi state as well as 8,000 cooks are involved in the school feeding programme in the state which he said has provided jobs and economic benefits to hundreds of thousands of people.
Chinade promises that, they will support and forward MEDA’s recommendations on Soya Beans as regards to its introduction into the school feeding programme as a protein and other minerals source for children.
Speaking on behalf of the trained women, Alice Tsammani who also prepared and presented a local delicacy using Soya Beans said that, they have learnt a lot on how to process Soya Beans in different forms and create meals for the family.
“Our ability to process Soya Beans is very limited before this training. Now we have learnt how to make it part of our daily meals and we know it’s nutritional values and how they will benefit our health especially the children,” she said.
She added that, MEDA has widened their scope on the various uses of Soya Beans and provided them with an opportunity to be involved in its value chain as end users. The other women that displayed their culinary skills during the fair were; Victoria Yusuf, Fatima Usman, Hannatu Musa and Ummi Yunusa.
The rest include; Toria Yusuf, Hannatu Sa’idu and Banzata Markus. They were later presented with a subsidised, Eco-Friendly Stove which uses Charcoal.
The foods displayed at the fair include; Soya Beans Cake, Soya Beans Chin-Chin, Tuwo, Dambu and other local staples prepared with Soya Beans.