Consultant Physician and kidney specialist, Dr. Chimezie Okwuonu, is the founder of Beatitudes Kidney and Eye Foundation, Umuahia and the Beatitudes Kidney and Dialysis Center, Aba. In this interview with IGBEAKU ORJI, he speaks on the challenges of managing kidney disease, the high cost of dialysis in the country, among other issues  Why is treatment of kidney disease costly in Nigeria? The reason why the management of kidney disease is out of the reach of many Nigerians, is not far-fetched. One, is the high cost of medical consumables used in the treatment of the medical condition. The requirements are not produced locally. The problem with renal care in Nigeria is that the materials are expensive, the basic consumables are not in the country. Second, is the rate of poverty and the exclusion of kidney patients from the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). The NHIS does not cover everyone and even those covered by the scheme only have six dialysis sessions, which a patient takes in two weeks. After that the patient is left to take care of himself. The federal government should expand the NHIS to include every Nigerian, the aged and those in the informal sector. Also, each state of the federation should formulate a policy that would take care of kidney patients. In neighbouring countries like Niger, the cost of dialysis is the equivalent of N3000. In Cameroon it is N5000 and in Benin Republic, it is free. However, in Nigeria a dialysis session takes a whooping N30,000. How many patients can afford that and for how long could such patients do dialysis considering the huge cost? Chronic kidney disease (CKD) means the kidneys are damaged and can’t filter blood the way they should. The disease is called ‘chronic’ because the damage to the kidneys happens slowly over a long period of time. The kidneys’ main job is to filter extra water and wastes out of human blood to make urine.
On its part, Kidney failure, also called end-stage renal disease (ESRD), is the last stage of chronic kidney disease. When the kidneys fail, it means they have stopped working well enough for an affected person to survive without dialysis or a kidney transplant.  What is the reason patients prefer to travel abroad for kidney transplant? Well, they may have their reasons, which may range from modern facility and all that, but the truth is that kidney transplant is cheaper in Nigeria than outside. However, patients travel to India because it is also cheap there. The service is cheap in India because private hospitals have the facilities to provide the service so what raises the cost is the travel, accommodation and feeding expenses of patients. Some people believe that kidney disease is incurable, how true is that?  It is not true. We have successfully managed 11 patients, who were eventually referred for kidney transplantation. Some, after going through the dialysis may not need another session until after six months. We have handled cases in collaboration with our partners, United Kidney Foundation in the United States of America (USA) and other non-government organisations (NGOs). Our aim is to ameliorate the suffering of the patients who cannot afford the high cost of dialysis. The United Kidney Foundation, gives one free dialysis a week to kidney patients through our collaboration. Most patients die because they cannot afford the high cost of dialysis.  Why did you establish a kidney dialysis center? The suffering kidney patients go through to access medical service is one of the factors. In fact, some patients died on their way to the center in Umuahia. One died at the bus stop while another one died while traveling to the dialysis center in Umuahia.
All of them are from the Aba and Ukwa areas. That was the reason we decided to open an annex at Aba to serve those from the south of the state. They didn’t need to die if the service was available and affordable. The ones run by government packed up a long time ago. Besides, patients have to pay exorbitant fees to access the service and most times, they cannot afford such fees for a sustained period of time. But, here we ensure that every patient has access to treatment. No patient is sent away because he/she cannot afford to pay. Our fees are cheaper in comparison with what obtains in other private and government hospitals.  What is the reason for the rampant cases of kidney disease in the country? The rampant cases of kidney related ailments are fuelled by hypertension, diabetes, HIV infection and repeated kidney infections. Similarly, herbal concoction and lack of regulation against quackery have been blamed for rampant cases of kidney diseases.  What are the predisposing factors to kidney disease?  The predisposing factors include excessive consumption of salt and salty foods and herbal concoction. Patients should go for regular checks/screening.  What do you want to achieve by setting up the dialysis centre? The cost of service is free for one week in our centre. After the inauguration of the centre, we subsequently subsidised the cost of treatment so as to assist our patient. Similarly, this effort is geared towards accommodating every category/status of patient. Our aim is to be a leading private center for kidney care in the South-East.