Members of Trade Union Congress (TUC), Enugu state chapter picketed the zonal office of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) at New Haven, Enugu over alleged highhandedness and anti-labour policies of the Managing Director of TCN, Mr. Usman Gur Mohammed. The labour Union members who sang solidarity songs blocked the main gate of the multi-billion transmission interchange at New Haven Enugu, halting movement in and out of the premises for several hours. The protesters who were initially blocked from getting close to the main gate of the facility by a dozen policemen had to force their way through to the gate, where the leaders addressed the workers and other Union members who came in solidarity. Fielding questions from journalists, chairman of TUC, Enugu state chapter, Comrade Igbokwe Chukwuma Igbokwe among other things called for the sack of the MD of TCN, Mohammed; and reversal of all anti-labour policies including an illegal sack of workers, stoppage of check-off dues payment and illegal posting of workers. Igbokwe who noted that the picketing was simultaneously going on in other zonal offices of TCN in Lagos, Abuja, Oshogbo, and Port-Harcourt, also called on the anti-corruption agencies to arrest and prosecute the Managing Director for alleged corrupt practices. “Today we are here, not just Enugu state, but all the zones where they have TCN companies, it’s a national directive from TUC, our national office that we should picket TCN. “Practically we are here because we have tried all possible means, using all measures to see that issues going on; anti-labour activities of management of TCN, we tried to resolve them amicably, we tried to dialogue over time, for them to one; withdraw incessant queries being issued to our members, victimization of members of senior staff association of TCN. “We have done everything through Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment to invite us for a meeting, invite TCN for a meeting, so that ball these issues will be resolved but ball to no avail. “So today we have come to tell the whole world that TCN management, one; is treating our members like slaves, denying them their rights, breaching the contractual agreements because for every worker, there is a contractual agreement that has to be kept by the employer. “When we picket, its to tell the whole world what is on and let the relevant authorities address the issue. Where these issues are not addressed, then we will go to the next stage, that is when it will begin to affect other establishments beyond the TCN because by the time we go on industrial action to shut down the TCN, it will affect every sector of the economy. “So we are calling on the presidency and other relevant authorities to call the man (MD) to order and relieve him of his duty and get somebody who knows how to run a system like this and who is competent,” he said.