Senator Isaac Alfa represents Kogi East Senatorial District on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with CHUKWU DAVID in Abuja, he speaks on his motion, seeking to declare Kogi State an oil producing state, which was eventually rejected by the Senate. He also speaks on the need to reorganise the Nigeria Police Force for effective operations while also calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to construct some bridges in his state to link the South East, South-South and the North, for economic and security purposes  You recently brought a motion to the Senate, demanding that Kogi be declared an oil producer but the motion failed to achieve that purpose. What’s your basis for bringing up the motion and how do you react to its failure rejection by your colleagues? Well, I thank God that you witnessed what transpired in the hallowed chamber of the Senate that day. I can tell you with all sense of responsibility that the motion did not fail. It did not fail in the sense that out of six prayers of the motion, only the first one, though very important to me and the Kogi people was rejected by the Senate; and that was the prayer urging the Senate to impress on the Federal Government to declare Kogi as an oil producing State. So, I am very pleased because the motion cannot be said to have failed. Remember that one of the reasons that first prayer was not accepted was because in my absence from the chamber, my colleagues worked on the matter and referred it to the Committee on Petroleum Upstream. However, the Committee slowed down work on the issue due to the electioneering activities of the last general elections in the country. But I can tell you that as a result of my motion, the committee has promised to speed up work on the assignment with the Boundary Commission and submit its report within two weeks, which will be next week. Also, don’t forget that through my motion, the Senate urged the governors of Kogi, Anambra and Enugu states to meet and fashion out ways to resolve the lingering communal crises among communities within the boundaries of the three states where oil wells are found. The Senate also urged the Federal Government to direct the National Boundary Commission to immediately release its report on the determination of the boundaries of the communities contiguous to OPLs 915 and 916. It further urged communities of Ibaji, Igga and Aguleri-Out of Kogi, Enugu and Anambra states to sheath their sword and allow peace to reign while the National Boundary Commission carries out delineation of the correct boundaries. The Senate also urged the Federal Government to ensure that the displaced communities in the disputed area, due to the hostilities, are allowed to return to their ancestral homes and compensated for their loss due to the crises. Again, the Senate directed its committees on States and Local Governments, Petroleum Upstream, National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance with the above resolutions. All these are fallouts of that same motion some people erroneously say that it failed. I am very grateful to God because the motion actually succeeded.  In your motion, you said that Kogi has crude oil deposits, and therefore, should be declared oil producing state. Is there any exploration going on there? Yes, for your information, and in fact, am also using this medium to inform all Nigerians that oil exploration commenced in Ibaji, Kogi State as far back as 1952 by three companies -Shell BP now known as Shell Petroleum Development Company, (SPDC), Elf, now Total Fina Elf and AGIP Energy. These companies collectively drilled 25 exploration wells, two appraisal wells and eight core drill wells in the entire Anambra Basin, out of which majority of them fall within Kogi State with a facts made available through a letter, dated November 21, 2003 to the Nigerian President by the former manager, drilling (NPDC-NNPC), Engr. Sam A. Uchola. On July 25, 2001, a team of geo- scientists/engineers was drafted to the area to carry out a preliminary investigation on the claims of Kogi State and the resuscitation of these productive core wells in the area among other areas prompted the granting of an Oil License, now known as Oil Prospecting License (OPL) 915 and 916 to an indigenous company known as Orient Petroleum Resources Plc. The Orient Petroleum Resources Plc has been taking crude oil from OPL 915 since 2012 till date and the percentages of crude oil in the OPL 915 among the three contesting states are as follows: Kogi State 53 per cent Anambra 23 per cent Enugu 17 per cent and Edo 7 per cent. It’s however, regrettable that there has been no drilling activity from the OPL 916 which jointly belongs to Kogi, Anambra and Delta States while Orient Petroleum has fully drilled foru oil wells at OPL 915 (wells 1,2,3 and 4) with wells 3 and 4 incontrovertibly located in Ibaji in Kogi State accounting for 53% of the Crude oil. Consequent upon this, Orient Petroleum Resources made three offers to Kogi State Government when the company arrived on the scene for exploration activities which recommend that the Kogi State Government should appoint a Liaison Officer to act as intermediary between the government and the company, that the government of Kogi should allocate a land to her to use as her depot; and that the government of Kogi State should buy a share of at least N500,000,000 in the company but the company has not taken up the shares.  You returned to the Senate after a protracted legal battle. In fact, you were sworn in for the second time in the life of the 8th Senate less than three months to the end of this Assembly. What can you achieve within the short period? I am happy to be back. I don’t know if I can achieve anything for my people in the remaining less than two months even though I had bills and motions in the pipeline before I left. But even if I can’t push in anything again, I will like to draw attention to the plight of Kogi East to the Federal Government. Kogi East is home to the Igalas and Basas. The Igalas are the ninth largest tribe, if not the eighth in Nigeria. But this zone has not witnessed any federal presence as far as I know in the past 20 years. When I was here, myself from Kogi State, Senator Chukwuka Utazi from Enugu State and Senator Princess Stella Oduah from Anambra State were going to co-sponsor a bill to make these three states declared oil producing areas. It was sad that this wasn’t followed up after I left, with the result that Kogi State, especially Ibaji where most oil is being tapped from by Oriental Petroleum was not recognised as oil producing area whereas Anambra has since been recognised. This issue has resulted in unnecessary loss of lives and property especially between the two communities. Recognising one and ignoring the legitimate rights of the other is a recipe for further clashes. That was why I sought the understanding of the Senate President for my motion on this to be listed and debated but you have seen how the thing went, and I thank God for everything. There is so much for the Federal Government to benefit from. I am baffled that extraction of oil has not commenced in Odolu axis of Kogi East of Kogi State, where the oil well there is even greater than the one in Anambra and Ibaji put together. The other sub-point is the delay in the completion of the Green Refinery at Itobe which was inaugurated at the same time with that of Lagos and one other state. Am told that Lagos is operating now but that  of Kogi is yet to be completed.   I heard that you are disturbed about the failure of the Federal Government to construct some bridges to link the South East, the South South and the North North. Would you make clarification on some of these bridges and their socio-economic benefits? Well, being a security person, I am concerned about what will happen in time of crisis, and we all know that the enemy considers bridges as a means of communication between two sides. So, one motion that I would have liked to push in is on multiple bridges for connection between the North and the South across the River Niger and River Benue. Presently, the only bridges that service the North and the South are Onitsha Bridge over River Niger, Jebba Bridge over River Niger, Ajaokuta Bridge over River Niger, Kogi Bridge over River Niger and Makurdi Bridge over River Benue. These are too few. In 1985, when President Muhammadu Buhari was Military Head of State, he promised to construct a bridge over River Benue at Gbadama. This bridge, if completed, will shorten the journey from South-South and South-East to Abuja by four to six hours. The painful thing is that the bridge was started but it was not completed, and the cost of completion continues to escalate the longer we leave it. Now that he has another four years to be in office, I hope that he will complete it for security and economic purposes. Another bridge that will serve Nigeria, security wise and economic wise is over River Niger to link either Kogi State to Aganegbode in Edo State. This will make it easy to move from that part of the country not only to North Central but also to North East. For those of you who have been to Lokoja will see that Shintaku is just a stone’s throw from Lokoja. River Niger in that place is too narrow that it cannot take much to complete a bridge between Lokoja and Shintaku for security and economic purposes. I am not saying that government should go and fund these bridges. Government gave an example recently, when it approved some companies on public private partnership (PPP) basis to construct some bridges or some roads and give them some tax relief. This is another way that government can construct these bridges because they are very vital to our security.  It was also reported that you were proposing that a maritime university be established in Lokoja. Is it feasible as you will soon leave the Senate, since you are not coming back in the 9th Assembly? I was actually pushing for a maritime university in Lokoja, Kogi State before I stepped aside. Presently, the only two we have are very far away. So, if they approve that of Lokoja, it will serve the interest of North Central, North-East and North-West. I am going to seek the cooperation of the Senate President to see how I can bring it up before the expiration of this Assembly. So, I thank the Almighty God that has brought me back, even if it is for only two months. I also thank the leadership of the Senate who eventually decided to say, yes I have a case and then inaugurated me.  You are former Chief of Air Staff, what is your aim for coming to the Senate? Nigerians are curious to know your motive. It should be clear to everybody that my coming to the Senate is not for any personal benefit. I am a former Chief of Air Staff; I was a member of PRC. At that time, when you mention the Head of State, you mention the Chief of General Staff and collectively the members of the PRC, they were the third in the hierarchy of government. So, I wasn’t coming to the Senate to add anything but to represent my people and contribute to whatever I could. That is why I continued this battle over the three and half years, especially to show those younger ones coming behind not only from my state but from other areas that if your people say you are the one they have selected, you should be allowed to go and represent them. But if a certain set of people or party say that they want to foist somebody on you, you can go to court. If God is on your side, you will get justice, and when you get justice and leadership is convinced that you have that justice, they will go and do the needful just as the National Assembly has done by bringing me in. The four years that have passed is a learning curve for everybody: for the Executive and the Legislature. The Executive and the National Assembly have learnt a lot from these four years of interaction. What is your impression about the performance of the Police Force in its present formation? If the government is really going to achieve more, it has to do surgical operations in several areas. The anti-corruption fight must focus on several organisations especially the reorganization of the police force. The police as presently constituted is not only undisciplined right down the line, inadequately trained and very ineffective. Even the Police Service Commission as presently constituted is not in a position to discipline the police force. If the police is up and doing, which is actually not the fault of the police because the police need to be trained, well equipped and reorganised, then you don’t need the State Security Services (SSS) to go after the judges. We won’t need the military to secure elections. Lawyers won’t charge millions or hundreds of thousands of naira to go and start compromising everybody. The judges are the representatives of the Almighty God on earth, and they should be allowed to do their job. My case went through 34 judges, and I won 10 out of 11 judgments. The only one I lost was also reversed by the same panel that gave that judgment. On my integrity, I never gave a kobo to any judge throughout the time I went through these cases in the three and half years of my ordeal. I know that no system is perfect but there are some Nigerian judges today that are absolutely incorruptible, and my case went through many of them.  Why were you not sworn in earlier in spite of several court judgments in your favour? My answer to your question is this, even if the Senate President had wanted to swear me in before the time he did, he wouldn’t have been able to do it because God said that it wasn’t time. So, it was the time to swear me in that I was sworn in. That is why I am grateful to him and the leadership of the National Assembly. I believe in pre determination; and it is only when God wants something to happen that that thing happens. But I am told that there is new record here; I am told that in the history of the National Assembly, that I am the first person to be sworn in twice within the life of a particular Senate. I don’t know whether that is true or not but if that is true, then I have gone down the record until somebody else goes through the same record, and I am grateful to God. Again, if that is true, I will ask the Senate President to give me a medal. Finally, I want to thank the media in Nigeria, particularly those of you in the National Assembly. I know the standard is not perfect but it is improving at least for the print and the electronic media. But a lot of work still needs to be done by the press body itself on the social media. Maybe the government can help them in this. The social media feed the gullible public with all sorts of disinformation including hate speeches, which can set the country on fire. Let us leave the government out of this. The press has a body; it should be able to regulate itself, and I pray that the press will take up this matter promptly and decisively. ..urges IG to audit Police armoury in state command The face-off between the Kogi State Governor, Mr. Yahaya Bello, and the Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye, yesterday took a new twist. The senator said that he would bring a motion to the floor today to urge the… In “News” The Senate, yesterday, refused to approve a motion seeking to recognize Kogi State as oil producing state. It argued that the apex legislative chamber lacked constitutional powers to delve into such proposal.   The Senate, however, urged the governors of Kogi, Anambra and Enugu states to meet and fashion out… In “News” CHUKWU DAVID reports on the crisis in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which recently gave rise to the emergence of the Reformed APC (R-APC) and its ripple effects in the National Assembly   The intractable crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC), which has resulted in the emergence of… In “Politics”