Adeyemi-Bisileko Gboyega read law at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. He was called to Bar in 2016. Gboyega, in this encounter with JOHN CHIKEZIE, shares his experience, pupilage and career  Background
My name is Adeyemi-Bisileko Gboyega and I’m from Obokun Local Government, Osun State. I attended Providence Nursery and Primary School, Federal Government College, Ijanikin, Lagos and later graduated from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife where I obtained a Bachelors of Law degree in 2015.
I thereafter proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Lagos Campus and was called to Bar in 2016.  Choice of career It was an earlier option of choosing between law and International Relations. But after a long consideration, I decided to choose law because I felt a stronger yearning for the profession.
My decision was also approved by my parents, who have remained my greatest influence. My parents, during my early years, had always allowed me to raid their respective libraries and feed on as much knowledge as possible. No wonder the choice came naturally to me.
However, my father and mother are medical laboratory scientists turned clergy and teacher respectively.  Pupilage My first year was with the Ministry of Justice, Kebbi State, during my National Youth Service year from February to December 2017. While there, I worked with the Director of Civil Litigation and also handled a couple of criminal trials from the Department of Public Prosecution.
I work presently with JE Bisong Duncan and Associates in Ikeja, Lagos and I have been there for almost a year.  Specialised area of interest in Law I have a keen interest for Finance, Emerging Technology, Intellectual Property, and Start-up Advisory work. I have taken training and also have been certified in Finance. I took a course on Finance and Investment Banking with EduBridge Academy, Lagos from January 2019 to March 2019. I also participated in a training organized by International Lawyers For Africa (ILFA) and the Nigerian Bar Association- Section on Business Law on Banking and Finance. I also have an interest on emerging technology as it affects known procedures and especially the practice of law. A typical example includes how artificial intelligence can be used in the legal profession while Intellectual Property involves the protection of original contents daily created by individuals and the need to protect them.  Immunity for the head of the judiciary Well, the intent is to protect the sanctity of the court, but we can’t condone corruption (if and when proven). I wouldn’t support immunity for the judiciary, but I would rather advocate due process in prosecuting anyone, including judges. Like most laws, we look at the intent of that immunity granted, which is essentially to focus on the work of governance.
And what use is governance if it is being wielded by a corrupt leader? However, as it stands, there’s no judicial immunity for the judiciary. As stated in Ngajiwa vs. FRN; CA/L/969C/2017 there is no immunity for them, there is, however, a procedure to take in charging a judicial officer. That process as it involves the National Judicial Council (NJC) enabling it to investigate the officer and exercise its disciplinary functions is the first port of call. Only when that condition precedent is fulfilled can a judge be brought to trial.
That preserves the sanctity of the judiciary and sees justice done. The above essentially applies to when an infraction by the said judge is a violation of his judicial oath of office. If the judge commits offences outside the scope of his office, such as manslaughter, murder, fraud or suchlike, the NJC may be bypassed and the said judge arrested and prosecuted.  Reforms in Nigerian Law School and Law Faculties Perhaps a restructuring of the undergraduate and Law School syllabus to reflect the society in which law is being practiced. Perhaps a ratio on admission of undergraduates into law faculties, more Law School campuses to better enhance student-teacher ratios and this may be an unpopular opinion, but it is the way to go.
More emphasis to be given to understanding the corporate environment as is given to litigation.  Experience A person and most especially a lawyer needs to know everything of something and something of everything. Lawyers are essentially midwives of industrialization and I have realized that it’s a weighty responsibility. As such, there is no end to learning. As a lawyer, one must properly understudy the laws and the system in which they work to properly proffer solutions that advance the practice and the cause of justice. There is always something to give back to the society. And personally, I run an online diary on Twitter with the hashtag; #YoungLawyerLikeMyself to help young lawyers navigate their workplace issues and get a grip on career decisions.  Laws and lawyers’ roles in corporate acquisition An acquisition basically occurs when a person or group of persons obtain shares with no less than 30 per cent voting rights and not more than 50 per cent.
Such a person is required by the Investment and Securities Act to make an offer to takeover. But like I said earlier, lawyers are midwives to industrialization and a lawyer or lawyers are useful in preparing such acquisition bids, drafting a scheme of arrangement, being part of the court-ordered meetings and generally ensuring compliance with all corporate governance requirements.
And the state of corporate governance (or the lack of it), in my opinion is still a big issue with attracting right investors to an economy. As regards, two businesses having a dispute while entering a complex transaction that is easily resolved, being that the operative word is “entering”. In the case that an agreement is not yet executed on both or in the rare cases of tripartite agreements, it can’t be referred to as a dispute yet. Any clause which is unfavorable to any party can still be negotiated over and a middle ground could be reached. However, if it be in an already executed agreement, inasmuch as such agreement is lawful and can be upheld as such, the individuals would have to go down the way of mediation, arbitration or litigation depending on the specifics of the dispute resolution clause which most agreements have and all should.  Merger Mergers are a bit complicated but I’ll do my best to explain it as much as possible. There are small, intermediate and large mergers all with their varying thresholds. Mergers automatically tell us that no less than two business entities (being limited liability companies) seek to become one entity. This means there’ll be a lot of internal restructuring between or amongst the subject companies to reflect the unified identity they are working towards. In principle, the three types of merger are towards achieving the same thing but the process differs. Although the small merger doesn’t require as much regulations as the intermediate and large merger, the small merger doesn’t require prior notification of the Securities and Exchange Commission. For intermediate and large mergers, there needs to be an approval before the merger can take effect. Though I’ll say some things are left unsaid by the Investment and Security Act, 2007 and I’ll mention a couple of them. While the procedure for a small merger is well defined by the Act (ISA 2007) with court sanctions and all, it’s not so for the intermediate and large merger. The business clime despite the valid call for due diligence can move a bit faster and the period for granting merger approvals stretches too long more so if any of the companies are publicly traded.