The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, yesterday in a live broadcast chided the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and the governors of South-East over persistent Fulani herdsmen attack. Kanu said his group would never succumb to any pressure from any quarters aiming to turn Igboland into Ilorin, Kwara State, which he said, lost most of its Yoruba heritage through several years of Fulani conquests. He stressed that all those opposed to IPOB should use the condition of the Middle Belt region of Nigeria to appreciate what would happen in Biafra land should what he termed Fulanisation agenda is allowed to succeed. The IPOB leader also insisted that the May 30 sit-athome order was only meant to remember the heroes of Biafra as been observed all over the world. He said: “Injustice after injustice has been meted out to our people with nobody rising up to organise a philosophical and ideologically consistent mass resistance against it until we IPOB came along.“Our reward was betrayal after betrayal by Ohanaeze, Igbo governors, some “Efulefus” and poverty stricken fellows that lack the discipline to understand what freedom fighting is all about. “The mission of these misguided slaves is to turn our land into another Kwara State or Illorin to be precise. “They want the land of our ancient people to become another vassal Fulani caliphate with quislings in charge the same way some Yoruba Muslims answerable to Sokoto Caliphate are in charge of Yorubaland today.” Speaking further, he said: “To appreciate what the future holds for us without IPOB, simply look at what non Fulani Islamic populations are going through in the Middle Belt. “Their conditions will help you to appreciate what shall become if us in a few years time if we fail to do something now by supporting IPOB with all our might. “Things have gotten so bad to the point that Ohanaeze, Obiano, Ugwuanyi, Umahi and Ikpeazu that were at the forefront of assisting their Fulani masters in tagging IPOB a terror group are now impotent before Fulani terrorists invading our land on a daily basis, slaughtering and maiming at will. “Ironically it has been left to the same betrayed IPOB to step up and defend our communities under attack in Ebonyi, Enugu and Anambra. “Have you heard any of these governors speak up against the killing of our people by Fulani terror herdsmen?” Kanu went on to question the move by some persons to stop the 30th May Biafra War Victims Remembrance Day, adding that such moves will fail as honour must be given to the fallen and living heroes of Biafra. “All over the world they honour their dead heroes. They do their anniversary. The end of the armistice was over 100 years ago, but every year, they still remember. “Nigeria just passed a bill to recognise and honour June 12 as Democracy Day because of one man. These same people then turn against IPOB for honouring 3.5 million victims of genocide and those that fought to save those of us who are alive today. “These same Fulani people in our midst are telling us not to honour over 3.5 million victims of genocide and the brave men that fought to keep us alive.” The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu on Friday, said that the secessionist group will send the governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, back to Jos in 2019. This came as IPOB has dismissed as false media reports on Saturday that the rally and visit of… In “News” Why we’re rooting for restructuring –Ohanaeze The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has condemned the Igbo apex socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, over the summit it held recently and its outcome, saying the disappearance of its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, since last year, should bother it. The condemnation emerged on… In “News” KEEP YOUR BIAFRA IN THE EAST ...as bringing Biafra to S’West amounts to warmongering Kanu has no investment in Nigeria –Investors ‘Biafra bigger than Kanu’ We’re excited by his coming –Youths Paul Ogbuokiri Igbo leaders and traders in Lagos have expressed disgust at the reported plan by the leader of… In “News”