 Ozekhome, Oke, Ubani differ on NFIU’s new guidelines for LGs’ funds  FOLUSO OGUNMODEDE writes that barring any last-minute change, governors of the 36 states may lose control of local government funds from the Federation Account should the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) guidelines take effect from next month. Can NFIU restrict or place outright ban on chief executives of states from interfering or meddling with councils’ accounts without recourse to Section 162 of the Constitution? Lawyers say yes, no   Barely one year after President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) Bill into law in accordance with the requirements of Recommendation 29 of the Financial Action Task Force Standards and Article 14 of the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, NFIU at the weekend took the bull by the horns. It told thirty-six chief executives of the states that they no longer have powers to meddle into the 774 local government areas. In a guideline it set to launch today, NFIU said the existing Joint Account System in place in most states would only exist for the receipt of allocations and not disbursement. Besides, each of the 774 local government areas may get N500, 000 cash transactions limit per day as all financial transactions by local governments would now be registered and monitored by the NFIU through e-payment module. This, NFIU said if effected would check mass looting of the treasury by local government officials and diversion of councils’ funds by governors. Also, it was aimed at restoring the financial independence of local governments. NFIU said: “The guidelines will limit cash transactions in the accounts of local governments and promote registered transactions by all the local governments.
“Governors will also lack control over the utilization of these funds of local governments. “The Joint Account System in some states will only exist for the receipt of federal allocations meant for local governments and not disbursement as the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is taking his anti-corruption campaign to a higher level by also blocking sources of stealing in government at all levels, money laundering, terrorism financing and others. “We should expect more transparency in governance, especially at the third tier, which is the local government level.” NFIU which began operations on April 1 also said in a statement by the NFIU through its Acting Chief Media Analyst, Mr. Ahmed Dikko, said it would soon complete beneficial ownership data base for politically exposed persons (PEPs). The statement reads: “The main focus of the NFIU will be to fight all crimes through money laundering, terrorism financing and proliferation of weapons real time analyses in the entire country. “Significant measures to be implemented by the NFIU in the near future will include full implementation of the National Sanctions regime to all detected areas of vulnerabilities within our systems. Other areas include issuing guidelines, advisories etc that will affect cash transactions processes of local, state, federal governments and bureau de change etc. “The Unit will also release new reporting requirements on suspicious transactions for terrorism prone areas and on suspects taken into custody in violent and flashpoint communities to check vices of terrorism, proliferation of small arms, kidnapping, ethnic violence, cattle rustlings etc. with the view to providing credible intelligence for law enforcement and national security. “Finally, efforts of the Federal Government to set up the beneficial ownership data base for politically exposed persons and public servants will be completed and expanded to capture additional necessary areas. “The new process which includes new approach to analysing compliance in public account expenditures will almost shut down corruption from the way we used to know and new transparency methods will come to governance.” Can NFIU exercise such powers without recourse to Section 62 of the Constitution? Lawyers said no, yes as they could not agree on such powers under the law.
While some agreed that NFIU was in order, others differed. For instance, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) said NFIU had no power to stop governors from meddling with local government accounts. This, Ozekhome said would not work until a constitution amendment was carried out for such order to be enforced. He said: “NFIU or any other government agency has no power, legal, moral or constitutional to stop state government from meddling with the accounts of local governments. “That is not to say that the governors’ action in meddling with the accounts of another tier of government is right. But any such action must first consider the provisions of Section 162 of the Constitution which provides for how generated income put in the federation account is to be shared. “The one between the state and local governments are always joined and this is why many governors are audaciously mopping up local government funds at source and left little or nothing for the local councils to do capital projects. All they have are just recurrent expenditure. It is a wrong thing for the governors to do. “But, Section 162 of the Constitution as well as Section 8 that deals with the autonomy of local governments has to be amended first. This is to make them truly autonomous and independent of the states. Until that is done, you cannot by executive order or a mere directive of an agency simply abolish a constitutional provision. So, all that the NFIU has to do is to seek ways to amend the Constitution”. Ozekhome was echoed by a Lagos-based lawyer, Ike Nwakwuo, who also believed it would be difficult for the NFIU to enforce the new guidelines. He said: “The Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit Act, 2018 confers on the NFIU, the statutory powers to receive, analyse and disseminate financial intelligence reports to all law enforcement, security and intelligence agencies and other relevant authorities. These functions are duly captured under Section 3 of the Act herein under reference. “A careful reading of the said section reveals that all information and reports gathered by the Unit must be transferred to the relevant agencies for appropriate action. The Act did not give any clear cut power on the Unit to prosecute erring persons and institutions. At best, the Act in Section 25 empowers the Unit to carry out administrative penalties against all persons and institutions who are in breach of its regulations.  “Here comes the pertinent question, can the NFIU enforce legal provisions barring state government from meddling with local government funds? My position is that where this occurs, the Unit shall transmit its report to the appropriate agencies to deal with the prosecution aspect of this breach. “This is the main function of the Unit to gather and transmit information to appropriate agencies. Whilst Section 3(s) gives the intelligence Unit an omnibus power to do such other things as are necessary or expedient for the attainment of the obligations of the Unit under the Act, it may still be argued that it was not the intendment of the draftsman that the Unit should go into legal prosecution of defaulters.” Also, Mohammed Fawehinmi believed a court order and constitution amendment was needed before the new guidelines would be enforced. He said: “The NFIU can actually enforce the legal provisions with the support of the National Assembly. But for now, the agency needs a court order to enforce the legal provisions. I think it is a good idea. It’s also a constitutional issue.” Another Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Chief Olusola Oke stated that there was no need for a court order as far as securing the funds meant for the local government was concerned. Oke said: “The state is merely a passage through which the money should get to the Local Government. The state is not empowered by the Constitution to spend, allocate or remove from the funds belonging to the Local Government. It will be a national infraction does any state to dip hand in the money belonging to the Local Government from the Federation account. “But this has been the bane of our democracy, even under the military, any money coming from the Federation account through the state to the local government. The Local Government is being treated like a department in the state. So, the money is being spent, diverted and used by the state for other purposes. I think what the Federal Government wants to do is to sanitize the situation.  “But unfortunately, there is little the Federal Government can achieve at the end of the day because it cannot be a police. A permanent solution is an amendment of the Constitution to the effect that the CBN will release the funds meant for the Local Government directly to it and not through the state.”  However, a former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Monday Ubani, thinks otherwise. He threw his weight behind NFIU’s action.  Ubani said: “The money in the joint account supposed to be for the local governments only. But, sadly over the years, the state governors have been meddling with those funds and this is hampering developments at the grassroots.  “It is the duty of the NFIU to ensure transparency in financial management in the country and it has found out that corruption smells high with the local government funds. In this case, the state governors are culpable.  “The spirit of the Constitution is that all the funds from the federation account to the joint account are to be used to develop local governments and this has not been the case. This is why the NFIU’s intervention at this time is highly welcomed and commendable. All well-meaning individuals must rise in support of NFIU.  “No judiciary’s intervention is needed by the agency to enforce the legal provisions and if anyone is aggrieved, such an individual should go to court. I am totally in support of this measure that this particular agency has taken and I urge all Nigerians to do same because all of us are products of local government.  “If you look at Section 162 (5) of the Constitution, it mandates the state governors to also contribute their own quota into the joint account outside the money that came in from the federal government. But the governors have failed in that responsibility. Rather than putting money into the account, they are taking from it. The joint account came to being in order to ensure transparency in how the funds in it were spent by various local authorities.”  This was also the views of Destiny Obun Takon, who belives NFIU needs not to go to court to enforce the order.  “If the law by statute has made provision and empowered the NFIU to look into or investigate complaints concerning meddling by the state governments in the accounts of the local governments, it would not require any order of court to entertain or investigate any complaints before it against any state government given that it is already empowered to do so by statute”, he said.  Dr. Kayode Ajulo submitted that the Constitution made separation of power between the State and Local Government same with their accounts.  He added that the governor did not need any court order appropriate the local government monies and hence there is no need for any court order to bar them from spending such monies.  To Dr. Samuel Udeagha, the issue at hand was a constitutional one as the Constitution had provided for how the money belonging to the Local Government should be disbursed.  Udeagha said: “In my own opinion, what the Federal Government is set to do through the NFIU is to implement the provision of the Constitution and in that case there will not be need for any court order again. “This is because, the Constitution has already provided for how allocation coming to the Local Government through the State should be disbursed. The said money is not for the state. But what we see today is that the states usurp the powers of the Local Government takes over their money and leaves them empty. “So, if the Federal Government has devised a way to enforce the Constitution, it is a welcome idea and for me, no court order is needed.” Convener of a leading anti-corruption group, Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA), Olanrewaju Suraju was not different.  He said the decision by the Nigeria Intelligence Financial Unit (NFIU) for its newly introduced financial guidelines for Local Governments was a welcome development which needed no court order. Suraju said“the decision of NFIU to enforce extant provisions of the law against meddling with local government funds is a milestone in the fight against institutionalised corruption.  “Local Governments are critical to the livelihood of the poorest of the poor most of who live in rural communities. Over the years, state governments have been breathing down the neck of elected Local Government Chairmen to the extent that they have become paper tigers. “They lack initiatives and are perpetually at the mercy of state governments that muzzle and trample on their resources. We think the NFIU intervention is remarkable.  “We want to see the words translated to action. We shall monitor compliance across the 36 states of the federation. HEDA will work with local and international partners to ensure the full implementation of the directives.”