The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Mr Zubairu Muazu, has disclosed that policemen under his watch will undergo intensive Emotion Intelligence Training. The training is a fall out of the indiscriminate use of rifles and killing of civilians witnessed in Lagos State not too long ago. There were three major indiscriminate shootings and killings that occurred just as Muazu was taking over the mantle of leadership in Lagos command. The CP mentioned the forthcoming police training during his breakfast meeting with ‘Stakeholders Accountability Platform’ on Tuesday, held at Ikeja. The ‘Stakeholders Accountability Platform,’ is a coalition of community-based, focused Civil Society Organizations (CSO), National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and stakeholders working on issues of police accountability and service delivery. The group had frank discussions around police abuses, need for the various units to be alive to their duties of treating public complaints and giving feedback. The need for synergy between police, CSO, communities and media was also highlighted. The breakfast meeting was supported by Nigerian Policing Programme (NNP). Muazu disclosed that policemen, who shot and killed some civilians, were right now in prison. He explained that the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, had warned all police formations that such recklessness among police personnel would no longer be tolerated. He noted: “The Emotion Intelligence Training will take off within the next one or two weeks. We have already contacted the consultants and made other necessary arrangements. Our policemen can’t continue to behave the way they are behaving. They can’t be shooting and killing people.” Chairman of the ‘Stakeholders Accountability Platform,’ Okechukwu Nwanguma, who is also the coordinator, Network on Police Reforms in Nigeria (NOPRIN), said: “The Forum was initiated by CSO and other stakeholders in Lagos State with support from NNP and was launched in August 2018 by former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi. “The Forum was established to provide a platform for engagement with the Lagos State Police Command and in particular, to understand the functioning of the various public complaints and discipline mechanism and how CSO and other stakeholders can engage and strengthen these mechanisms to promote accountability and respect for human rights and change public perception of the police.” According to positivepsychologyprogram.com, Emotion Intelligence Training is a set of practical knowledge and skills that help individuals to become fluent in understanding the language of emotions, communication skills, long lasting and strong interpersonal relationships – personal and professional, self-awareness and self-control. The site further states: “Emotional Intelligence is our mind’s ability to perceive, manage, and express emotions effectively in real life.” It is the ability to regulate feelings and use them to guide our actions. Emotional intelligence has been argued, can make one to become fluent in the language of emotions, help the person to sustain relationships, both personally and professionally. Emotional intelligence can also empower the mind and make someone happy and content. Teaching emotional intelligence to individuals not only builds their emotional skills, but it also sustains education over several years. Delphine Nelis, a cognitive psychologist, said that the group that received the practice not only showed marked improvement in their emotional abilities, but they also continued to manifest the same even after six months of the experiment. Also at the meeting were heads of Police Public Complaints Bureau (PCB), X- Squad, Gender Unit, Human Rights Desk, Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Anti-Cultism Unit and Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO).