Ogbueshi Paul Odili is the former Communications Manager to former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan, who contested for the House of Representatives seat for Ndokwa Federal Constituency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) but lost. In this interview with DOMINIC ADEWOLE, he says vote buying and result sheets falsification saw the candidates of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, including Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, to victory in 2019 general elections  You were part of the PDP for years, why did you defect to the APC? I was there for eight years under the government of Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan. But when you get to a point and I see that the system, the PDP system became very problematic for my conscience and political philosophy, I was faced with the question of how then do I express myself? I have always had political aspiration. I could have joined any party but I sincerely believed that the APC has a very solid programme that I could identify with.
Our politics is not necessarily ideologically based; it is just a question of where best can you express yourself and get the support? I knew that the structure in PDP was not going to allow me to run. I also knew that there was a need for us to have a different perspective. I have engaged with PDP chieftains and I saw that they were not interested. Hence I sought a suitable platform where I knew I could fit in.  What did you discover in the 2019 general elections? Seriously speaking, I am not ruling out anything. The party (APC) has made a very clear statement on that. Although I am not Chief Great Ogboru, the governorship candidate of our party, he has a broader perspective of what transpired during the exercise. I expect him to make his own statement regarding that. But from what I see and what I know, there are a lot of hard questions to ask about the whole process that produced the results that were rolled out in favour of the PDP and all its candidates in the state. They all won massively by vote buying, result sheet falsification.  What role did vote buying and result sheets’ falsification you mentioned play in the elections that produced the various winners during the 2019 general elections? I am like you. I did not spend money to buy votes. I canvassed and campaigned, went round and spoke to people across board. I mobilised people. I was running this thing based purely on the failure of the incumbent legislator. Our constituency should ordinarily have been the richest in Delta State because we have oil and gas, and Nigerian economy is still largely based on oil and gas but there is nothing on the ground. We are not seeing the effect of that. Elsewhere for those who export this thing, Nigeria still compensate them and we are not getting the effect of this compensation. I think the best thing to do was to get out and raise issues. I didn’t have the money to engage PDP in vote buying which they indulged in but I had the message. The constituency where I am from, for instance, is oil and gas producing in Delta North, and obviously we have not had the pay-back in our communities. My objective for contesting was to get us recognised and get the pay-back to start coming into the communities. We are easily the least developed, that is the sad part of it, which the PDP is capitalising on in terms of social infrastructure.  I had proposed in my vision that since Nigeria depends on oil and gas, and we have tremendous quantity of that under the ground, that there should be a Marshal Plan for my people to address infrastructure, road, electricity, potable water. Most of the things we desire may not necessarily be done by state. I knew that because there are communities in the constituency that you will not believe human beings live there. No electricity, no road, no water, no school, no health facility. It’s heart rendering. My objective was to raise alarm, and engage the Federal Government that look you are getting so much from here, and the place is getting nothing in return. But what has actually been happening is that the oil companies are in collusion with the political class in the area to shortchange the indigenes, that was also part of the problem that I was going to the National Assembly to address.  As much as we know that those resources are there, what has happened is that they go to oil companies to negotiate deals, make stupendous amount of money and give the people peanuts in the name of empowerment. And regrettably because the people don’t know better, they don’t ask questions. I will not send a man to represent me, and he is spending so much in the name of empowerment through buying and distribution of motorcycles and all that, is he starving his family? Is he doing it with his salary? Can he make available the budget proposal for that expenditure? Is he liquidating his business to execute those things?  Yet what the people need to cater for their economic transformation are not being dealt with. I knew clearly what their challenges are – infrastructural development. I wish the state government can do that, but I also know how difficult it is to do it. It is expensive because our terrain are hard to do, the cost of building road and social amenities and basic infrastructure is very expensive. So it will require the intervention of the Federal Government to do that which also takes a great deal of the resources that Nigeria shares. So, we are the ones to raise the alarm and identify what our needs are.  As far as I am concerned, I don’t know of any House of Assembly member in PDP who can raise those issues and get them addressed? Yes they can try but I am not sure of how far they can go because it is really expensive to develop our terrain, to build roads and all those kind of things. Maybe it was a case of dealing with Devil than the angel you didn’t know! That issue came up. Devil is not known for giving you anything good. I would rather deal with an angel that I know can bring something good. Devil is a Devil, he cannot come and give you anything positive.   But with the factional crisis rocking the APC in Delta State, would you have considered your party winning majority votes in the elections?  The truth is this, while we know the manipulation that happened, I mean the rigging, which clearly happened. Evidence of that abounds all over the state. We have gotten that. The figures don’t match up with the actual votes declared, no question about that. But I also admit that APC needs to look itself in the mirror; there are a whole lot of hard questions that the party needs to answer sincerely, honestly and openly. You mention crisis, I admit. When you have a political party that is not very cohesive in which fifth columnists are all over the place, there is power struggle to the point that the party interest is not necessarily the most dominant in political calculation and planning’ I admit all that. Yes we may not have performed up to expectations, to some persons, even though there is another school that say we are contesting against a party that has been in power for 20 years plus, that is was not easy, which also means that as a party, we should have be more serious in terms of how we come into the equation. But I am also saying that if there is a system on the ground, due process, let us follow through.   Would you also advice APC to challenge the outcome of the governorship election? Well, the APC will make a decision on that, there is a lot to challenge. For me, there is whole lot to look at. I will make that decision before the expiration of the time. It is worth challenging I view of the depth of the malfeasance. But there are other variables which you need to look at before you come to that conclusion. I am not ruling out anything, that is my point, ultimately we will make the best decision that will give us the best outcome.  If you are given the opportunity to reform the electoral process, what new innovation will you bring on board? I will first react to the rhetoric that our electoral process that it is improving because we have the card reader and all that, no. There is still a lot of work to be done. I admit it is work in progress. What are the issues to be dealt with, first of all, I talked about political education, it is extremely importantly, our people are not politically educated; our people need to understand what is really going on. It saddens me that what you find in Delta and perhaps in my one federal constituency is that a few people are in total control of the resources of the constituency. And the ordinary person is not asking the right questions, and is not making the right decisions, as in how do we get things done in a way that things will change? I see that people do not think that government can actually improve their lives qualitatively, or that politicians can.
There is a level of cynicism that is so embedded in the psyche of our people that for them whatever they get immediately is good enough. And how much do they actually get? The small man gets peanuts, even there is scramble to get the peanuts. If we have educated our people, they will make the right decision, they will ask the right question, they will be more vigilante. When you talk about rigging, manipulation, it is done in acquiescence with the people. They either don’t care or they don’t protest. No! Our future is at stake, our commonwealth is at stake. Some people are taking advantage of that. So that will be the critical area I will engage in, political education, public empowerment, people need to have that information, mobilise them towards that direction. Difficult to do but clearly that is the way we can get out of this, otherwise nothing will change.  