●Stakeholders blame poor infrastructure   The current 33 per cent broadband penetration in Nigeria has failed to produce the expected growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as projected by the World Bank, New Telegraph has learnt.
This is despite the steady increase in access leading to connection of 63.4 million Nigerians at the end of March this year.
The country’s broadband quest is premised on a World Bank’s study, which established that every 10 per cent increase in broadband penetration should lead to 1.34 per cent Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth. This prompted the country to develop a five-year National Broadband Plan in 2013 with a target of achieving 30 per cent penetration by the end of 2018.
The target was achieved against all odds, as penetration leapfrogged from six per cent in 2013 to 31 per cent in December 2018 and 33 per cent in March this year. However, industry watchers lamented that the impact of the almost 30 per cent increase penetration achieved in the last five years is not being felt on the economy as expected. From latest statistics released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Nigeria’s GDP in Q1 2019 grew by 2.1 per cent, driven largely by oil and gas and agriculture sectors.
According to a former Minister of Communications, Dr Omobola Johnson, the economic impact of the increasing broadband penetration is not being felt because of the poor infrastructure outlay in the country.
“Yes indeed, our broadband penetration has increased by over 20 per cent, but I don’t think we have delivered 2.6 per cent GDP growth; we haven’t. That is because the broadband infrastructure that we have is inadequate, it is unreliable, it is unstable and expensive,” she said.
For Nigeria to reap the benefits, Omobola said the country must focus on deploying digital infrastructure that would get everybody connected irrespective of where they are in the country. “We need to look at the reliability of our connectivity and the cost, it really doesn’t look that good. We need to begin to define our infrastructure aspirations in a very different way. We shouldn’t just be talking about the broadband penetration, we should be talking about ubiquitous infrastructure that is available to every Nigerian wherever they are, wherever they live. We need to talk about ubiquitous infrastructure because when you travel out of Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt, it is almost impossible to do anything because that infrastructure is just not there. Or even if it’s there, it’s just not reliable. It has to work all the time,” the former minister said.
She warned that Nigeria risks becoming an irrelevant economy if the current infrastructure challenge is not addressed. “About 30 to 35 years ago, we were referred to as the third world country, then we became an emerging economy and now we are expected to move from emerging to a developed economy. The narrative that is happening right now is that we may end up actually being an irrelevant economy because if we don’t address this issue of digital infrastructure, we will no longer be relevant. I said this because despite our population size, if you look at the digital future of the world going forward, we may become irrelevant because we don’t have the infrastructure, we don’t have the skills, we don’t have the innovation that will be required to be relevant in the world going forward.”
Expressing similar view, the President of Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Mr Olusola Teniola, said the broadband penetration has not impacted GDP growth because Nigeria lacks digital strategy. “We are at 33 per cent penetration, but has that led to growth in GDP as projected by the World Bank? Definitely no; because we do not have a digital strategy. If we need to improve the economy of our country, government has to come up with a digital strategy,” he said.
“A digital strategy is defined by government, not by the industry regulators. It should come from the Ministry of Communications or other ministries collaboratively and then pushed up to the Presidency.”
Meanwhile, aside the World Bank’s study establishing the impact of broadband on economy, a new study published by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) has also highlighted the economic impact of broadband and digitisation on national economies. In terms of digital transformation, the study showed that the economic impact of a digital ecosystem and found that effective policy and regulatory frameworks could drive growth in the digital ecosystem.
Analysing the report, ITU Secretary-General, Mr. Houlin Zhao, said: “With this landmark study, we can now quantify the impact of broadband and digital transformation on economic growth.
“Investment in ICT infrastructure is an absolute priority to expand access to broadband services and to help accelerate achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals.”