 President Muhammadu Buhari has signed a budget of N8.92 trillion as passed by the National Assembly for the 2019 fiscal year.
The National Assembly had earlier passed the amount as against N8.83 trillion presented by the President on December 18, 2018.
The increase of N90 billion in the budget is to cater for security challenges in the country, packages for lawmakers and support for Zamfara State.
Performing the signing ceremony at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, yesterday, Buhari faulted the increase in the budget by the lawmakers which saw the introduction of new projects.
He said: “I presented our 2019 budget proposal with the theme “Budget of Continuity”. Our goal was to use this budget to move the economy further on the path of inclusive, diversified and sustainable growth.
“Back then, I proposed a total expenditure of N8.83 trillion to the National Assembly for appropriation, targeting strategic and impactful projects and initiatives.
“However, the 2019 Budget I will be signing into law today (Monday) provides for aggregate expenditures of N8.92 trillion. This is an increase of N90.33 billion over our submission.
“This increase reflects changes introduced by the National Assembly. In some areas, expenses we proposed were reduced while in other areas they were increased. There were also certain areas where new additions were introduced into the budget. More details of the approved budget will be provided by the Honourable Minister of Budget and National Planning.”
The President noted that some of the changes effected by the National Assembly are likely to make the implementation of the budget difficult.
According to him, “Of course, some of these changes will adversely impact our programmes, making it difficult for us to achieve the objectives of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP).
“Although I will be signing this bill, it is my intention to continue to engage the National Assembly to ensure we deliver on our promises. I will, therefore, be engaging with the leadership of the Ninth National Assembly, as soon as they emerge, to address some of our concerns with this budget.”
The President said his government, in the coming months, will also look at how to improve the budgeting process so that, amongst other things, to speed up budget consideration processes and return the country to the January to December fiscal year timetable.
He commended the National Assembly leadership and the lawmakers for all the hard work they put in to getting the process through.
Speaking to State House Correspondents shortly after the signing ceremony, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, explained that it was not possible for the National Assembly to always agree with the executive.
He said: “I have told you that the job of the National Assembly is not to agree with the executive, I don’t think any congress in the world does that.
“By the constitution and design, the executive informs us what they in  tend to do and the representatives of the people in National Assembly decide what is priority since they represent the people. It is going to be a knotty area, but we will continue to define the relationship between the executive and the legislature.
“Whether it is Britain or United States, where it is, there is always a strain on this issue of the budget because it deals with high stakes distribution issues as to who gets what, which part of Nigeria gets this and that. So, it will continually be an issue.
“We should not be defined by those issues. Rather, we should define those issues by forming consensus that is the path to progress and we will continue to do that,” he added.
Dogara said going forward, the budget should been seen as a collective exercise of the legislature and executive.
According to him, the budget is a law and being a law, it falls within the purview by constitution and design of the National Assembly to make the law.
“In most cases, it is the National Assembly that decides how federally generated receipts should be expended and the National Assembly took that decision and we are glad that the president has signed it into law.”
Senate President Bukola Saraki, who also witnessed the event, arrived late for the signing ceremony. He arrived the President’s office by 11:17a.m.
The Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, who represented him at the ceremony, had disclosed that Saraki was coming straight to the Villa from the airport.
Dignitaries who witnessed the ceremony at the mini-conference hall of the president, included the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari; Ministers of Finance (Zainab Ahmed), Budget and National Planning (Udoma Udo Udoma), Information and Culture (Lai Mohammed) and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, Danjuma Goje,
On June 6, 2018, Buhari signed the 2018 appropriation bill of N9.120 trillion into law.
During the signing of the 2018 bill, the president further noted with dismay the cuts made by the National Assembly to the bill he originally presented.
He said the legislature made cuts amounting to N347 billion in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and introduced 6,403 projects of their own,