Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc has been recertified by International Air Transport Association (IATA).
The company in a notice to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), its shareholders and the investing public said the recertification was issued to SAHCO after it passed the IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO) standards audit conducted on the company after the expiration of the previous certification. The notice signed by Basil Agboarumi, Managing Director/CEO of SAHCO, noted that by the recertification, SAHCO has continued to model its operations in Lagos and Abuja to ISAGO standards, as a result making a commitment to continue to operate to globally accepted industry best practices. It noted that the Audits cuts across Load control, Passenger and Baggage Handling, Aircraft Handling and Loading, Aircraft Ground Movement, Cargo and Mail Handling.
“As already pledged to its clients (current and prospective), it is SAHCO’s resolve to continually provide quality and efficient Passenger, Ramp and Cargo Handling Services in line with best practices and the highest International Standards to the delight of its customers and benefit of all stakeholders, utilizing State-of-theart equipment, skills, procedures and facilities, and employing a dedicated workforce,” he explained. “The revalidation was issued to SAHCO after an onsite confirmation of the implementation of the ISAGO Audit which was certified to be in compliance with internationally recognized quality auditing principles. ISAGO audit is essential to promote safe ground operations and understanding of high-risk areas within ground operations, the audit also eliminates redundant audits from airlines thereby promoting a uniform audit process and harmonized standards that improve quality standards in Aviation Ground Handling.”
The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) recently admitted a total of 1.354 billion ordinary shares of Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc (SAHCOL) at N4.65 per share in its platform.
With th3e listing, the company added N6.294 billion to the market capitalization of stock market. Addressing the investment community at the fact behind the listing on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, the Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Agboarumi Basil, Mr. SAHCOL said the firm is one of the success stories of privatisation in Nigeria.
“We felt that that we need to give Nigerians opportunity to benefit from the success story and also to make the company more feasible. SAHCOL is the only ground handling firm that has an airline background,” he said.  “SAHCOL’s future strategy seeks to create long term shareholder value through the profitable operation and expansion of its business beyond Nigeria and into other West African markets with vision to become the leading provider of passenger ramp and cargo handling services in the West Africa sub-region,” Basil noted further. Executive Director, Regulatio , Ms. Tinuade Awe, speaking on behalf of the National Council, Management and Staff of The NSE, said following the Federal Government’s decision to identify key state-owned enterprises from, which to extract value and open to private sector expertise, SAHCOL was 100 per cent privatized by the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) and transferred to the Sifax Group in 2009.
Awe added that ten years on, the company has become an important success story of the Federal Government’s privatization drive.