To be fair to those opposed to Mikel Obi’s return to the Super Eagles squad, they do have a valid argument. For one, the timing is quite convenient, just before the second most important tournament in the football calandar for African teams: the Africa Cup of Nations.
It is understandable that people are peeved that the captain abandoned ship after the World Cup only to return with AFCON looming. A whole year after his last international appearance!
Of course Mikel had to battle with injuries and missed games in China. However, he was still fit enough to play in some of the AFCON qualifiers but chose to stay away.
In his absence, the team qualified for the tournament with a game to spare, in a tricky qualifying group where South Africa and Libya were genuine threats.
So the anti-Mikel brigade feel – justifiably – that if the team could qualify for the tournament without him, they should be fine in Egypt without him.
After all, he was involved in the qualifying campaigns for the 2015 and 2017 tournaments, and could not lead the team to qualify on both occasions. These are very strong points against Mikel’s return.
However, there is a very compelling case for his recall, probably with more merit than the one for his exclusion.
A team needs its best (and willing) players for major tournaments, and head coach Gernot Rohr obviously sees Mikel as one of his best players. The midfielder has made himself available, therefore he is willing.
The former Chelsea star is getting on in years at 32, but he is coming off a brilliant half-season with English Championship side Middllesbrough, who missed the Premier League promotion play-offs by a whisker.
He joined the club on a short-term deal in January and played 19 games in all competitions, scoring one goal. He won high praise for his performances and captained the side in their last six games of the season.
On current form, Mikel deserves a spot in Rohr’s squad; this is not a call-up driven by sentiment.
Also, from personal observation, the Super Eagles tend to play better with Mikel in the team, than they do without him. He brings better control, more composure and more balance to the midfield. He is exactly who the team needs when the going gets tough and the young players might lose their heads.
With 85 caps and having been captain since 2016, Mikel commands a great deal of respect from his teammates and is seen as a leader. The youngsters look up to him because he has had a successful career playing for one of Europe’s biggest clubs, Chelsea, and winning the UEFA Champions League.
To non-footballers, playing for a big club and winning the big trophies might not count for much, but young footballers tend to hold in high regard senior colleagues who have reached levels they themselves aspire to.
How many of these Super Eagles players get to share a dressing room with a colleague who has won the Champions League, the Premier League, the FA Cup as well as the AFCON trophies? This is a star who has won pretty much everything and can infect the other members of the squad with his winning mentality, his appetite for success.
Mikel is not only respected by the other players, he is also admired and will be a positive influence on his young teammates, most of whom have never played in the AFCON.
In fact, apart from Ahmed Musa and Kenneth Omeruo, Mikel will be the only member of the current squad who featured at the team’s last AFCON in 2013 when Nigeria won the title.
Also, a look through the provisional Super Eagles squad of 25 players named last week reveals only four midfielders, including Mikel . This obviously means there is a dearth of quality in midfield and the services of a specialist in that area with Mikel’s quality and experience are sorely needed.
Maybe, the Super Eagles need Mikel just as much as he needs the national team.
Six years is a long time in football and that is how long it has been since Mikel pivoted the Super Eagles, along with the likes of Vincent Enyeama, Victor Moses, Omeruo and Emmanuel Emenike, to AFCON triumph.
And the former Chelsea star is no longer a spring chicken, but you get the feeling that he still has at least one big tournament left in the tank. The 2019 African showpiece, back in the country where he made his senior tournament debut for his country in 2006, might just be that competition.
Mikel does not have to wear the captain’s armband in order to perform his duties and lead the team on the pitch. He just needs to put in a hundred percent effort in all the games and inspire the rest of the team. What has anyone got to lose?