The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) has launched an in-flight payment investigation and resolution service that is available in the cloud, in a significant expansion of its network-wide payments validation toolkit. The new service allows for dynamic query handling between banks on the SWIFT network, enabling them to quickly resolve instances in which required operational, regulatory or compliance information is incorrect or missing from payment instructions. Harry Newman, the Head of Banking at SWIFT, said: “In our drive towards frictionless payments, we are working together with banks and software providers to bring in a fully integrated, network-wide service to ensure a smooth payments process.”  Interbank efforts to resolve blockages often involve multiple requests and responses across chains of banks, the use of unstructured, un-standardised messages prevents automated processing, resulting in time-consuming and costly processes.  SWIFT stated that the service is integrated directly into SWIFT gpi and it will be made available to all 10,000 banks across the SWIFT network.   “The idea of using standardised codes to raise case resolution enquiries will ensure easy & standard interpretation of queries and eliminate the need to send multiple communication messages for the same query,” added, Abdulla Qassem, the Group Chief Operating Officer, Emirates NBD.  Additionally, the service will improve transparency, shorten resolution time and reduce the need for manual interventions. The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications (SWIFT) has announced that it will hold the 26th edition of the African Regional Conference (ARC) on 18-20 June 2019 in Accra, Ghana. In a statement, SWIFT said the ARC 2019, supported by the Bank of Ghana, will bring together over 500 leading… In “Business” The Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) has announced the availability of Customer Data Validation, a new reference data service that helps corporate treasurers validate bank master data against the most accurate and up-to-date payment reference data, available from the SWIFTRef directories. In a statement, the organisation said: “… In “Business” There is need for banks to collaborate to make the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) environment secured against abuse, the Second Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ghana (BoG), Mrs Elsie Addo Awadzi, has said. According to her, the need for securing the SWIFT environment against possible abuse… In “Business”