 A 26-year-old suspected drug peddler, Olukoya Ayodele, has told his interrogators that he made N3.6 million yearly from selling drugs to factory workers at Alausa area of Lagos State. Ayodele, who claimed to hold a degree in Information and Management Science, was arrested alongside an accomplice, Victor Godwin (30), by a decoy team of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS). Ayodele and Godwin, it was learnt, usually sell different types of drugs such as Indian hemp, Skunk, Tramadol, Refnol, Diazol and other assorted drugs to factory workers in Ikeja and its environ.
Ayodele was said to be a member of Aiye Confraternity. The police recovered different charms from him, but the suspect claimed he used them for protection against rival cult members when he was in school. He said: “I got the ‘account’ of charm making from my father who is a herbalist. It makes it easy for me to prepare various charms for myself and friends. “I came to Lagos after I graduated in 2015 in search for greener pastures, but ended up as a worker at a factory but the work was too stressful for me. I later got another work as a ‘motor boy.’ I also added drug peddling to it to augment the low income from the ‘motor boy business. “I make over N3.6 million annually from the sale of hard drugs and I have been in the business for three years now. The charms also helped me to transact my business and prevented me from being caught by security operatives as the charm shielded me from various arrests that had been carried out in the area where I operate.” But Godwin, who operates a boutique in Alausa area, said he was also caught with drugs which he claimed he used in supplementing his income from the boutique business. Godwin said he had been in the business for long. The suspect added that he also used the proceeds from the illicit business to pay his rent and was planning to get married.
Godwin claimed his income from the boutique could not take care of his needs.  He said: “I sell hard drugs to factory workers in Ikeja area. They use it to work because their work is energy consuming and requires agility. I sell one capsule of tramadol for N300 while Indian hemp and skunk go for N100 respectively.
“Drug business is a lucrative one because it helps me to make ‘sharp, sharp’ money, but I regret my involvement in the illegal business.” The state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, advised youths to stay away from the sales and use of drugs. He, however, said the suspects should be transferred to the Narcotic Section of the command for further investigation.