Nollywood actress, Georgina Onuoha, has lent a voice to the controversy surrounding the arrest of Nigerian singer, Azeez Fashola popularly known as Naira Marley. While she condemned all forms of fraudulent activities, she urged the EFCC to go after corrupt leaders the same way they have gone after the singer. According to her, this should be a challenge for the Nigerian people to speak out and demand better from elected leaders so as to move the country forward. She however expressed hope that the singer would be pardoned. She wrote: “I don’t know this young man. I believe everyone is presumed innocent until proven guilty. I condemn any form of crime. I condemn cyber crimes. My family have been victims of frauds and the pain caused is always palpable. That being said, I hope our young men and women will begin to do the needful by speaking up and standing up to their elected officials and demand better governance and accountability so we can eradicate this pandemic “ scam” ravaging our society and image locally and internationally. “Please guys, the time and talent wasted in cybercrime and other forms of crime can be used well. Nigerian youths deserve better from their government. What happened in Sudan and Arab spring will come to our shores if our elected officials and politicians don’t begin to address the hunger, poverty and joblessness amongst Nigerian youths. “I don’t know this young man and I pray for him that they tamper justice with mercy.@officialefcc , I will be more than glad if you start arresting our politicians who are looting our National treasury this way. I hope you show this same show of force to the cabals causing untold hardship on the Nigerian citizenry. I hope you hold every criminal in Nigeria accountable like this. “If you use this amount of security and force on this young man according to your policy and procedures, I hope every politician and public office holders who steal from our treasury will be treated like this , so that equal justice will be served under the law. Our society is so corrupt and sadly, the legal system works differently depending on your social political status.” The arrest of the singer by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has caused mixed reactions amongst Nigerians with some clamouring for his release. One of those reacting to the incident is popular actress Foluke Daramo- l a who addressed people supporting the practice of yahoo. The popular Yoruba actress, who made it clear she has no personal relationship with Naira Marley, said that two wrongs cannot make a right. Exp l a i n i n g further, she stated that the government’s failure to provide for its people is not enough reason to go into fraud.