...says May 29 ceremony will be low key  The Federal Government has said that world leaders will not be attending the inauguration ceremony of President Muhammadu Buhari on May 29 this year. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who disclosed this while briefing State House Correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said the world leaders will, however, be invited for an elaborate ceremony on June 12 which is the new official date for Nigeria’s Democracy Day. President Buhari begins another four year term in office on May 29 after emerging victorious in the February 23 presidential election when he defeated the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. According to the Information Minister, the May 29 inauguration ceremony will be a low-key affair. He said a number of the events slated for the inauguration will now be held during the first observance of June 12 as the National Democracy Day, where the world leaders are expected to attend. The minister explained that the decision for the lowkey inauguration for the President was taken at last week’s meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) which held on Wednesday, 8th May. Mohammed said that invitations have been sent to all world leaders to attend the ceremonies marking the observance of the Democracy Day on June 12. “Since the first observance of June 12 as Democracy Day falls into an election year, and as a measure to sustain June 12 as Democracy Day, the celebration of the inauguration and the advancement of democracy in the country will now take place on June 12,” Mohammed said, adding that the country can ill-afford two major celebrations within a two-week interval. He said the details of the events slated for the two ceremonies will be unveiled at a world press conference slated for May 20th in Abuja. New Telegraph recalls that President Buhari had directed the immediate gazetting of his order that the Democracy Day should be celebrated on June 12 from the hitherto May 29. The President accompanied the directive with a posthumous award on the late Chief MKO Abiola as the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), the acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election. The House of Representatives, last December, also approved June 12 to be marked as Democracy Day in Nigeria. The approval by the lawmakers followed the adoption of a report on a bill seeking to amend the Public Holidays Act 2004. The lawmakers had approved the amendments to three clauses in the Act, as recommended in the report. One of the clauses deleted May 29 as Democracy Day and replaced the date with June 12.