POTENTIAL
Eighty per cent production of oil palm come from scattered smallholdings spread over an estimated 1.6m hectares of land   Nigeria is currently losing over $500 million to palm oil import yearly due to worsening production in the local industry, the National Palm Produce Association of Nigeria (NPPAN) has reported. NPPAN Ambassador, Dele Olanubi, in a chat with this newspaper in Lagos, explained that the annual importation had virtually taken toll on their businesses. He noted that it was time the Federal Government stepped in to salvage local production of palm oil and finally put a stop to the importation of the product. According to him, if this action is not taken properly by government, local investors in the oil palm industry are at risk of losing billions of naira that have been invested in the sector. Olanubi explained that the problems facing the country’s oil palm production included lack of adequate land space, inadequate storage facilities, which result in low production of oil palm and inadequate finance, among others. The NPPAN chieftain also said currently, 80 per cent of production of oil palm comes from scattered smallholdings spread over an estimated 1.6 million hectares of land. He alerted government on the illegal entry of crude palm oil into Nigeria, linking it to the seamless corruption at the borders, which allows smuggled oil palm into the country at the detriment of local investments. According to him, “any of us who heeded calls by the Federal Government in the last three years for private intervention in the oil palm industry are at the risk of losing billions invested in the sector. “Virtually all of our businesses are at the verge of collapsing because of unbridled corruption culminating in smuggled palm oil into Nigeria due to porous borders.” He also emphasised that banks had tightened the noose around the investors over unsettled credits and loans running into billions of naira. “The jobs of millions of Nigerians are at stake if immediate positive steps are not taken to stop illegal entry of crude palm oil to Nigeria before it is too late. “Our members had taken the risk to obtain loans running into billions of naira from commercial banks and micro-finance banks to reactivate abandoned plantations,” he noted. Speaking further on the decline in the price of the commodity, he said: “Crude palm oil output increased tremendously within the last 24 months. The price was stable at N300,000 to N350,000 per metric ton within the last 18 months up to October 2018. “Since November 2018, we have noticed a downward slide in the price of CPO. In January 2019, we have the price drop to between N220,000 and N240,000 per metric ton, even when the February to June season is yet to commence. “We then wonder what the price would look like during the season, when CPO production is at peak. The local demand has waned,’’ he added. Recently, the Senate stated that there was need to totally ban importation of the commodity as Nigeria was losing huge foreign exchange to imports. The lawmakers urged government to ban importation of palm oil into the country in a bid to protect local production and encourage farmers.