…as Sports Ministry, SASCOC throw weight behind her  South Africa athlete, Caster Semenya, has lost her appeal against the IAAF at the Court of Arbitration for Sports. The Olympic 800m champion went to CAS after the athletics’ governing body came up with a ruling to restrict testosterone levels in female runners.  Despite the ruling, CAS agreed that it had “serious concerns as to the future practical application” of the regulations. Reacting to the judgement in a statement released by Semenya lawyers, the athlete said disappointed that two of the three arbitrators concluded that such targeted discrimination is necessary.  According to her, the new rule was actually targeted at her to bring her down, but she won’t let that happen as she look forward to coming out of it stronger.  “I know that the IAAF’s regulations have always targeted me specifically,” she said. “For a decade the IAAF has tried to slow me down, but this has actually made me stronger.  The decision of the CAS will not hold me back. I will once again rise above and continue to inspire young women and athletes in South Africa and around the world.”  Caster Semenya expresses her deep gratitude to the international team of advisors that assisted her in her CAS case, and to the South African government, to the South African public, to the generous donors who have supported her, and to others around the world who have shown their support in these challenging times.  Meanwhile, the South Africa Ministry of Sports and Recreation, alongside the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee has thrown their weight behind Semenya while expressing their disappointment on the judgement.  The Minister of Sports and Recreation, Ms. Tokozile Xasa, said in a statement made available to our correspondent that: “Naturally, we are disappointed with the judgement, however, we have directed ASA to request a copy of the full judgement. We will study the judgement, consider it, and determine a way forward.”  SASCOC on her part said the athlete’s rights had been trampled upon for long and they were hoping the judgement would bring an end to that but disappointed with the outcome of the case.