Residents of Benin and adjoining towns in Edo State have raised alarm over renewed bloody secret cult war between Eiye and Black Axe otherwise called Aye. As at the last count, 12 people were killed between Sunday and Tuesday in parts of Benin. On Tuesday evening, there was pandemonium at the Upper Sakponba end of Benin following attacks between members of the two groups. Many people sustained various degrees of injury. It took the intervention of men of the police Anti-Cultism Unit to bring the situation under control. Investigations showed that three persons were hacked to death near Isibor Junction close to Saint Saviour Road by Third East Circular Road Junction. Another victim was killed at Popular Street on Murtala Muhammed Way while one was shot at Idaho Street off Sokponba Road. Also on Tuesday evening, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Danmallam Abubakar, led his team to Sakponba Road to quell an attack and restore order in the area. It was learnt that the Sokponba Road area by Third Junction has remained a theatre of the repeated bloody attacks which resurfaced yesterday morning forcing many of commercial bus drivers and other motorists to desert the road. Findings showed that commercial bus drivers and their conduc-tors are major suspects as they are allegedly members of the two warring rival cult groups. On Sunday night, a victim was reportedly killed close to Iyobosa Street opposite Edo College near a place popularly called Aso Rock. Another victim was reported killed close to Second East Circular Road close to Etiosa by Lucky Junction. in addition, a victim was shot dead on Agbor Road near Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) depot while one was also hacked to death on Monday at a street opposite the NNPC depot. Again on Monday night, two persons met their untimely death close to Ekiosa ong Murtala Muhammed Way while one was reportedly killed at Owoba near ICC School. But as at the time of filing this report, operatives of the Anti- Cultism Unit trying to bring the situation under control. Although Benin and other areas have been relatively calm, there was anger in some quarters that the police were not doing enough to nip the growing killing in the bud. But when contacted yesterday, the Police Commissioner, Abubakar, said nobody had been killed in the rage. Meanwhile, members of the Legend Foundation, an anticultism body, yesterday called on the state government and security agencies to deepen the fight against crime and criminalities in the state. The Director-General of the group, Kadiri Christopher, in an interview with journalists, urged parents and guardians to guide their wards against cultism and other vices. Governor Godwin Obaseki recently vowed to tackle secret cult activities and related crime. As part of his promise, the governor set up a crime bursting outfit, Operation Wabazigan, to deal with all forms of crime across the state.