The House of Representatives yesterday turned down a bill aimed at reducing the number of Deputy Inspector General of Police, (DIGs) from seven to one. That was one of the considerations in a Senate Bill, which seeks House of Representatives concurrence to restructure the police and ensuring human rights practices by the police. It is also to introduce the age- long awaited community policing, which is to bring policing to the communities. The Bill, which was strongly debated yester-day is for an Act to Repeal the Police Act, Cap .P. 19, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and enact the Nigeria Police Bill, 2019, to provide for the framework for the police service and ensure cooperation and partnership between the Police and communities in maintaining peace and combating crime. Debating the Bill yesterday, the lawmakers, said that they were not against any law that was aimed at restructuring or reintroducing a new modus operandi and reorganising the command structure of the current police for optimal performance but that the proposed piece of legislation ran foul of the constitution which has provided, for instance how the Inspector General of Police is appointed by the President in line with confirmation of the Senate and approval of the Police council. They noted that with the present arrangement, where the Inspector General of Police is the defacto security officer in charge of all the states and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, but with delegated security authority to Commissioners of Police was unworkable. They said that was no matter the input and consultation a sitting governor makes in the appointment of state commissioner of police, where the governor is still conferred the statutory powers of the Chief security officer of the state as provided in the proposed amendment Bill. The lawmakers further said that the Bill may want to cure current ills and defects in the police through lawmaking, but what is more sustainable is to amend the constitution and establish state police, which would not only incorporate community policing but would engender democratized policing with respect for human rights. “This Bill complicates matters. Police is a federal institution. Let Nigeria Police be Nigeria Police. There must be need for state police ” Deputy Speaker, Yussuff Lasun, said in his argument during the debate. He stated that even though the Bill takes care of how the Police would be run to include community policing and also limit them to real policing responsibilities, the present structure in the police was completely defective, adding that the country needed state police. Other lawmakers who contributed, including Toby Okechukwu, spoke in unison.