Relief materials meant for the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) worth millions of naira were on Saturday burnt as the warehouse owned by the Cross River State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) in Calabar went up in flames. It was discovered on the premises of the Nigerian Chronicle, housing SEMA, that several bags of rice, gallons of vegetable oil, and cartons of biscuit and noodles which were kept in the warehouse awaiting distribution were burnt to ashes. The fire, which reportedly started about 7p.m. on Saturday, was described by an official of SEMA as “mysterious” because, according to him, there has not been electricity in the area for over five years. “We were all surprised about how fire got into the place because we have not had electricity in the warehouse in the past five years,” The official, who craved anonymity, said.  He said the items burnt were supplied by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on Tuesday last week and they had planned to distribute them when the fire occurred. The official, however, said he suspected arson by hoodlums who might have invaded the place on getting wind of the supply of items to the agency, claiming that security on the premises was porous. He said: “Last night, an air conditioner was removed by hoodlums and I suspect they came from the adjoining bushes close to the Bogobiri area.  “In the past, we usually engage the services of policemen but for sometimes now, we have not had any government support and so could not pay the torchlight and transport allowance of policemen; so they stopped coming.”  Our correspondent could not speak with the Acting Director-General (DG) of the agency, Mr. Princewill Anyim, but the Director of Administration, Mr. Martin Olokpa, said he suspected that hoodlums might have gained entry into the premises because of the porous security situation to set the warehouse on fire.  He said: “I don’t know the cause of the fire because we have not had light on the premises for over five years, but I suspect that hoodlums may come from the Mary Slessor axis to torch the place.”