Miango Youth Development Association, (MYDA), Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State has accused the Fulani herdsmen of killing a traditional ruler and village head of Kigam, Chief Salah Akpa and nine others, at different attacks within one month. The youth group, claimed that the killings were a continuation of the attacks, especially on innocent farmers in the locality during farming season as well as destroying their only means of livelihood. The group in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Mr Zongo Lawrence Nebanat, in Jos appealed to the Federal Government to intervene in the protracted killings of innocent Nigerians during farming season in Plateau State. The statement reads: “The killings are a continuation of their usual genocide attacks on innocent farmers on the plateau, destroying their only means of livelihood. “On April 9, 2019 Chief Salah Akpa a traditional Village head of Kigam was killed in his farm, the following day Emma from Ri-Do village was killed, 2 people were also killed in an ambush attack on 14 April 2019 in Hura village. They are; Janah Dare and Dadi Ibrahim. “On April 27, 2019 Sunday Di and Baram–Baram were killed by same Fulani terrorists on their way home in Dong village. The following day Emmanuel Ishaya and Miss Jummai Ijah were ambushed by same terrorists and a seven-month-old baby (Tabitha) survived injuries, same day in Rotsu Village Monday Audu Rivo was killed on his way to farm and on May 1, 2019 one of our youths survived gunshot on his way home to Jebbu Miango, he is now receiving treatment at Enos Hospital Miango. “The pre-mature cultivation of innocent citizens was not yet enough to them, the Fulani terrorists continued to destroy farms worth millions of naira in villages of Irigwe chiefdom, Bassa LGA and a Tipper truck with plate no. Xa407JJN Plateau State, belonging to one Manager from Benue state was burnt by the same terrorists. “Let it be said clearly that one million cows are not equal to Irigwe soul and it can’t be possible for a peaceful Irigwe man to kill 319 cows with matchetes as claimed by Fulani. We are not butchers but farmers.” The statement said the activities of the Fulani terrorists are similar and the same with that of Boko Haram in the North-East. “The Federal Government should direct securities agencies to investigate and arrest the leaders of the Fulanis within close environs before it escalates to destroy Nigeria.