 Comedian Ayo Makun, popularly called ‘AY’, was the hero as the Naija Legends forced African Legends to a 4-4 draw in a testimonial game to mark the end of Akinwunmi Ambode’s tenor as Lagos State Governor after four years. The former African and Nigerian stars brought back good memories as they played a 4-4 draw at Agege Stadium on Saturday. The match brought out flashes of brilliance from the stars who brought back nostalgic feelings and drew applause from the appreciative fans. But for Obafemi Martins, who still plays actively in the Chinese League, others were retired stars who were happy to thrill their teeming fans. Former Liverpool star, El Hadji Diouf was the most active player on the field with beautiful displays. The Nigerian legends were the quicker off the blocks as they got the opening goal through Nwankwo Kanu. However, the African legends replied with three goals through former Guinean captain, Titi Camara, Senegalese star, Khalilou Fadiga and Kada Keita. At the resumption of the second half, the Nigerian legends improved their performance and they reduced the tally with a well taken free-kick by Garba Lawal to put scores at 3-2. However, the African legends scored through another penalty from Diouf to make it 4-2. The Nigerian legends scored two more goals through Obafemi Martins and Ayo Makun to end the game 4-4.
Diouf stated that he was happy to play in the game was not happy to draw the game. He noted that he always like to win no matter the magnitude of the game.
He commended Governor Ambode for backing the game and bringing the legends together. “I am happy to be part of this game. It’s good to be with the legends of African football. I am sure games like these will help foster unity among us,” he added. Meanwhile, in a letter addressed to Ambode, four-time African Footballer of the Year, Samuel Eto’o, expressed his regret for his inability to participate in the match, however, saying that he was glad to have been invited as he holds the governor in high esteem. “I hold you in high esteem, the love and support I get from Nigerian football lovers and fans in Nigeria at large. It would have been a pleasure attending this celebration. I love you Governor Ambode, I believe the event will be a success and I give you my warmest regards,” he said.