Judith Audu is an award-winning Nigerian actress, filmmaker, presenter and model. She is renowned for her role as Mofe in the Nigerian television series, Emerald. In this interview with TONY OKUYEME, the highly talented artiste and avid blogger tells the story of her career as an artiste, challenges, why she can’t stop acting, fake lifestyles, politics and other issues   What was it about acting that got you hooked in the first place? The fact that I can be anyone, I can walk in different people’s shoes, become characters that are a complete opposite of who I am, feel people’s pain, feel their joy and the fact that lives can change by these stories we tell, people can be entertained, and also identify and recognise these characters, it is a life changing job and I believe it’s one of the best in the world as we have the power to influence change faster than anyone. Tell us how your journey into the world of acting began… Funny enough I wanted to be a broadcaster not an Actress, as I used to be really shy when growing up so I didn’t see myself strong enough to face the camera. But I started modeling and my self confidence and boldness in crowd increased. When I was in the French Language Village we had to act all our literature books that way I began to notice I really do love acting, so when I gained admission into the University of Lagos, I found a theatre group, Theatre 15 and joined. I learnt the rudiments of acting from there, learnt so much. And in 2004 I got an opportunity to act on screen, featured on a TV series called ‘One Love’. I immediately fell in love with screen acting. I auditioned and got a role in a feature film ‘Life is Beautiful’ by Femi Ogendegbe, “Hammer’ by Izu Ojukwu and after that I took a long break to concentrate in School, do my masters and I returned back in Late 2010, I attended a lot of auditions, learnt a lot, got a lot of good opportunities, and the rest they say is history. What has been your greatest challenge as an actress and as a filmmaker? As an actress every challenge that shows up always ends up working well, so I never really see them as challenge. As a filmmaker my greatest challenge is funding. After every project I was have to figure out how to get money for the next, looking forward to the day I will have an investor that will trust the company and invest in our projects. You have recently started going behind the camera. Are you planning to stop acting? Not at all. Acting is my first love; I really love to act. I will never stop acting. How do you combine all your various roles as an actress, movie producer, movie director, blogging with your responsibility at home as a wife? I find a way to find a balance and make sure none suffers; my home first and then the industry. It’s about recognising priorities and what is more important. Which of your movies is your favourite? All of them!!!!! Why? I love all my movies, they are all born out of deep passion and I love them all. They have moved me from one point to the other, all served a great purpose. What is your advice to aspiring or budding artistes? I always ask why they want to be an artiste or be in the industry, if they are genuinely interested or if it’s in search of stardom, if it’s the later they will be frustrated and their desperation will not do them any good but if they want to be here because this is what they really love then they should give their 100% in knowing more about the industry, information is free and available online If they cant afford to get training, they should read and prepare themselves, put their ears to the ground and know what is happening, use their social media platforms well by following filmmakers in other to see audition notice when any come up, any opportunity they get to showcase their skills they should not hold back no matter how little it may seem as they never know who is watching, there is nothing like overnight success, they should be very focused, work really hard, be disciplined and believe in themselves, no matter the amount of NOs they get they should never give up on chasing after their dreams, it is not easy but it is usually worth it at the end of the day. Would you encourage your child to be an artiste? If my child wants to be an artiste, I will definitely support and encourage the child. How do you unwind? By watching movies in the Cinema or at home (may still seem like work but it is how I like to relax). How do you manage to act, produce and direct among other responsibilities in your projects? I take on every cap when its time and take off the other cap, because of how much I love to handle a lot of tasks, I find it very fun and interesting doing all these things and I try to not make any affect any, I always make sure I employ the perfect crew and cast so I will not have any headache trying to make anyone do their jobs, so everything happens naturally as proper planning must have been done. I love to multitask and nothing gives me more joy than seeing a script come to life. What is your opinion about fake lifestyles by entertainers? I don’t think it’s my business how people live their lives or my place to dictate how they live. Which of the movies you featured in gave you the break as an actress? I am really not sure which did it, seemed like a result of consistency, from the series ‘Hustle’ to ‘Seekers’ to ‘Burning Spears’, but I think the series ‘Emerald’ made people know the face and name more. Against the backdrop of economic realities, some of your colleagues have gone into other business to as a means of alternative income. Beyond producing films and acting, what else do you do or plan to do? I am not good with running a business; we all have different things that work for us. So I have a couple of things I am working on. Any plans to go into politics? Why? For now I have no plans, but no one knows tomorrow What should your teeming fans expect from you in the next five years? In the next five years, Judith Audu Productions would have produced some of the best movies from Africa, bigger and better. There is a lot in store, have a lot of amazing projects lined up for this year, more quality productions, more amazing stories. This interview will not be complete if I don’t thank all our supporters, everyone watching our movies, motivating, encouraging and investing in us, Thank you. Nollywood is getting bigger and better every day, please come and invest and support us.