Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has declared that the investigation of the finances of the 23 Local Government Councils in the state is not aimed at removing any elected chairman, but to improve accountability and probity in the system.  The governor, who spoke yesterday when he inaugurated the committee to investigate and audit the financial transactions of the councils between May 2018 and May 2019, however, regretted that despite the monthly allocations to the councils, none of them executed any project.  Wike said that the committee, chaired by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Ipalibo Harry Banigo had three weeks to submit its report, stressing that the state government counts on the integrity of members of the committee to deliver on the assignment.
He said: “We are not out to remove any Local Government Council Chairman, but what we are doing is that it can no longer be business as usual in the 23 local government areas.  “We want to know how the local government councils spend their allocations. I have never interfered in the administration of local government funds. And, I am not one of those governors that interfere with local government funds.  “I have found out that there is no local government area where you can see a single project. When I was a local government council chairman, we executed projects. For me, I invited the state governor at the time (Dr. Peter Odili) to commission projects. No local government chairman has invited me to commission a project.”  Wike, however, urged the committee to live above board, saying that if any local government chairman or godfather attempts to compromise the committee, the committee will be dissolved immediately.
The governor added: “The chairmen must sit up and account for funds allocated to their local government councils. The people should ask for the bank statements, demand for money from the Joint Account Allocation, as well as for the salaries and allowances. If they spent any funds the day I visit the councils, they should state it. We cannot continue the way we are going. “At the end of every month, they must come to JAC meeting. We must know how the funds are being spent. Also, we will check which local government councils obtained loans when they are not authorized to do so.”  Banigo assured the governor that the committee would deliver on schedule in line with its terms of reference, adding that the audit would ensure proper use of council funds for development purposes. “The efficient running of local government councils will add value to the achievement of the vision of the governor. The committee will work in line with the terms of reference of the governor,” she said.