It was jubilation galore for pupils of Dee Phee Land Nursery and Primary Schools, Mafuloku-Oshodi, Lagos and their teachers as they rolled out the drums to celebrate the school’s cultural festival. The pupils, who would not forget the day in a hurry and are still savouring the event, were dressed in different native attires that depicted the country’s various ethnic dressing cultures. The high point of the event was the launching of a generating set valued at N200,000, to serve as alternative power supply to the school. Meanwhile, the event also featured the display of different traditional cuisine such as Abacha (African Salad), Amala, Efo (vegetable) soup, as well varieties of fruits, among others; different Nigerian ways of greeting. The students also thrilled their parents, teachers and other guests with music and dancing performance of different cultural groupings in the country, amid cheering and clapping. Established in 2005, the Proprietress of the school, Mrs. Okere Fortunefill Obioma, said that in line with the motto, the school is celebrating literacy and confronting illiteracy in the society. Our vision is “Our children are our future,” she added, saying at the school they are dedicated to their success, while the mission is to prepare the students to become independent learners with the desire, skills and ability necessary for life-long learning in a conducive environment which is centered around students’ needs, directed by teachers and supported by home and the community. Speaking on the cultural day, Mrs. Obioma, noted: “This school has been in existence since 2015, and there have been a lot of challenges, but in everything we are grateful to God Almighty that the challenges are bringing forth fruits. Indeed, when you are doing something and you are seeing the result and progress, then you will be encouraged to do more, and that is how it has been for us at Dee Pee School in the last five years. On funding of the school, the Proprietress, who argued that it has not been easy, like every other business outfit, noted that finance had always been the major challenge in a school project. She recalled: “The beginning of the journey was so tough and rough that we had to bring down the school fees for parents to register their children and to be able to pay because we also realised that it is not easy for parents to enroll their children into a new school, where there is no pupil. “We started with registration of one pupil in a class, but it was a gradual process and by the time we had 10 pupils, we were thankful to God. We started counting from 11, 12, 13 and so on, and presently we have Crèche to Basic Five, while we have graduated three sets of pupils. “We still aspire to establish a secondary school arm of the school and with God on our side, we will achieve it.”