The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has congratulated the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on his election as the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF). In a statement from the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party said it would expect that the new leadership of NGF would have a cordial working relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration. “The NGF’s unanimous election of Fayemi to lead the Forum till 2021 is, indeed, a right choice judging by Fayemi’s proven record of progressive leadership and experience as a development expert, minister, governor, among other endeavours. “Since its establishment, the non-partisan Nigeria Governors’ Forum has been a strategic partner in deepening democracy and entrenching good governance in the country. We are confident that the NGF, under Fayemi’s leadership, will continue in this best practice by cooperating and supporting the President Muhammadu Buhariled APC administration in delivering on the Change Agenda for Nigerians, particularly as the country gears up for the next four years of the administration’s renewed mandate. “The APC wishes Fayemi a very successful and impactful tenure and look forward to cordial relationship between the NGF and the President Buhari-led APC administration. This undoubtedly will ensure the successful implementation of the Next Level plans for our collective progress as a country.” Also, a former Governor of Abia State and Senatorelect, Abia North Senatorial District, Dr. Orji Kalu, has congratulated Fayemi on his emergence. Extolling the virtues of the former Minister of Solid Minerals, Kalu called on the governors to work collectively for the sake of nation building. He noted that Fayemi would bring to bear his political dexterity and intellectual capacity in steering the affairs of the NGF. In a statement signed by his media office, the Senator- elect acknowledged the role of the NGF in a democratic set-up. He said: “The emergence of Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, as chairman of the NGF did not come to me as a surprise owing to his pedigree. “The former Minister of Solid Minerals has the skills to drive the affairs of the NGF. “He is humble, forthright, accommodating, brilliant, dogged, urbane and patriotic. “Having served the nation in different capacities, Fayemi will use the platform of the NGF to complement the efforts of the Federal Government to reposition the country.” Kalu, while wishing Fayemi success in his new role, felicitated with Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, Sokoto State Governor, who also emerged as vice chairman of the NGF.