Operatives of the Special Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS), Edo State, have been accused of shooting, arresting civilians and demanding outrageous bail money. The SARS operatives were alleged to have stormed a residence in Ugbiyoko area of Benin City on April 29, 2019, at about 2am while in mufti and embarked on sporadic shootings. The allegation was made by Osazee Edigin Public Relations Officer of Edo Civil Society Organisations (EDOSCO). Edigin said: “It was a replica of armed robbery attacks thereby sending occupants of the building into frenzy as they scampered for safety.” According to Edigin, while the shooting raged on, some of the occupants tried running out of the building as the armed-robber-look-alike police officers broke anything on their way to gain access into the building. A not-too-lucky young man was shot and the bullets hit him on his leg and luckily, another bullet that was to locate his heart was stopped by his mobile phone that he placed on his breast pocket. Edigin said: “Having gained access into the building, they upturned the building, searching for guns and other dangerous weapons after which they arrested everybody on sight, including the shot young man. They took them to Evbuotubu Police Divisional Headquarters, where the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) discreetly rejected the suspects as the operation was not carried out by his men. “The issue that led to the operation was a misinformation by an armed robbery suspect. The suspect alleged that his gang members reside at the said building. It was later discovered that the suspect that led the police to the building lied.” The activist noted that the suspects and wounded were taken into police custody and the police allegedly started another round of accusations. The suspects were labeled as cultists. Edigin noted: “It was later revealed that the wounded was released and taken to the hospital for treatment. Further information has it that the commissioner of police has visited the wounded sus-pect in the hospital. The police officers that carried out the operation started demanding N900, 000 as bail for the rest suspects before they could be released. When it got to their attention that one of the persons arrested is a member of Edo Civil Society Organisations and sensing the pending consequences, they quickly collected N40, 000 as bail behind the scene and released them. It therefore follows that the essence of the police in fighting crime is to make money for selves and not protect lives and property. The police authorities appear to be watching and quiet as the institution degenerates on per second basis.” Reacting to the allegations leveled against the SARS operatives, the Edo State Commissioner for Police, Mr Dan Mallam Abubakar, said that he was just hearing the incident for the first time from our correspondent that called him. While stressing that SARS operatives couldn’t possibly go around arresting people and collecting exorbitant bail money from them, the CP said that families of those arrested should ensure they come to him to lodge complaints, so that their family members would be released. He also promised to speak with the officer in charge of SARS to find out what really transpired.