Former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Audu Ogbeh, stunned many Nigerians when he revealed that $1.3 billion is being spent yearly to import milk and its products into Nigeria. Taiwo Hassan looks at the need to reposition the country’s diary sector  Nigeria, with a population of about 180 million people is grossly underprovided with essential food components such as protein, which is important for the realisation and development of human potential – both mentally and physically.
Consequently, the lack of essential food components in the country has raised the level of malnutrition, thus, the need to effectively combat malnutrition in children and improve the country’s economy.
A survey by the World Bank revealed that malnutrition is causing Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) about $1.5 billion (N450 billion) annually amid growing food insecurity in the country.
Dr. Paul Ilona, the Country Manager, HarvestPlus Nigeria and a Food Consultant to the World Bank explained that malnutrition, especially in children, does not only affect the health and social lives of a people, but plays a significant impact in the economic relevance of a society.
However, to overturn the rate of malnutrition in the country, diary experts have suggested the need to establish more diary industries to produce more milk for Nigerians.
Already keying into this clarion call was Dangote group, which announced its intention to start production of milk in the diary sector to compliment local milk production.
However, for Nigeria to achieve this objective in milk production, experts have said that government needs to find ways to stop the $1.3 billion spending in milk importation into the country in order to guaranteed local production of milk by local diary companies. Food imports
Statistics from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) showed that massive importation of food, especially, rice, wheat, sugar and fish, into the country has continued to bleed the nation’s economy, with the four items accounting for a whopping N1 trillion loss to the nation annually.
Also, the agric minister has been at the vanguard campaigning on why Nigeria needs to stop over dependent on food importation into the country amid its multiplier effect on the economy, especially in the areas of putting pressure on the country’s foreign exchange and local content development.
Particularly, Ogbeh during the 2019 National Animal Production Research Institute (NAPRI) Open Day and project commissioning ceremony in Shika Zaria, Kaduna State, recently, lamented the adverse effect of milk imports on the fragile economy.
The minister decried the rate of milk imports, stating that the situation has to be overturned in order to effectively combat malnutrition in children and improve the country’s economy.
He said: “Malnutrition affects not just the physical development of children, but also, has adverse effect on their mental development, which brings about the importance of milk consumption in children.”
He, however, commended the efforts of NAPRI in creating an enabling environment for the livestock industry to thrive in the country. Potential
The Federal Government has disclosed that the country’s dairy market has the potential to generate N300 billion monthly as revenue if well harnessed.
This projected revenue base, according to government, would further reduce the country’s $1.3 billion yearly spending on the importation of dairy products such as milk, yogurt, cheese and other milk derivatives from abroad.
Former Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Aisha Abubakar, made this known in Abuja recently. She said that the continued importation of dairy products is taking toll on the country’s foreign exchange earnings.
According to her, Nigeria spends about $22 billion food import substitution bill, adding that the move would sustain food security and save foreign exchange earnings for the country.
The minister stated that government is inaugurating a stakeholders committee for the development of policy framework to boost the dairy industry.
She noted that domestic consumption of dairy products was bound to increase further with Nigeria’s growing population with the new framework for the industry.
She said the committee was inaugurated as part of efforts to diversify the economy and increase local production in sectors where Nigeria has comparative and competitive advantages.
Likewise, the minister noted that the dairy industry could also create millions of jobs for Nigerians.
According to her, more private firms need to come on board to boost Nigeria’s non oil sector.
Statically, 85 per cent of the country’s 19.5 million cattle are owned and managed by small holder, subsistent and nomadic herdsmen, leaving the remaining 15 per cent in the hands of medium and large scale farmers in managed pastures. Consumption
Nigeria consumes an estimated 1.7 million tonnes of milk yearly, but produces only 34 per cent to meet demand. The over 1 million tonnes deficit is imported, and this costs $480.3 million (N173.3 billion).
However, the country’s road to self sufficiency in dairy products is still long and tortuous. Even with the significant reduction in export earnings from crude oil, which compelled a strategic rethink around the critical role of agriculture in diversifying the economy, efforts at leveraging the dairy industry’s huge potential to give impetus to the diversification have yet to yield the desired result.
Although, the dairy sector represents an important component of the agric sector, and is also the second largest in the country’s food and beverage industry, the belief is that government has failed to match words with action in positioning it as a viable alternative means of national livelihood after the disastrous experience with crude oil.
For instance, the industry is credited with the capacity to provide means of livelihood for a significant proportion of rural pastoral families in the country. Last line
Although a private sector-led initiative, through backward integration, to raise the level of local milk production and create jobs is on-going, the consensus is that Nigeria must learn from global dairy giants, which owe their growth to government support and a conducive environment.