Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has accused the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 6 Division of the Nigerian Army, Major General Jamil Sarham of engaging in oil bunkering. The governor alleged that the GOC was running an illegal oil bunkering squad in a bid to finance his quest to be appointed the Chief of Army Staff, stressing that such appointment would spell doom for the nation’s failing security architecture. Wike, who made the allegation yesterday during a courtesy visit by the Commander of Joint Task Force Operation Delta Safe, Real Admiral Akinjide Akinrinade at the Government House, Port Harcourt, also said that Rivers people stopped the GOC and his accomplices from imposing a governor during the last elections. He said: “The GOC is doing illegal bunkering, which he is using to finance his quest to emerge as the country’s Chief of Army Staff. “He has his own team that is making money for him through oil bunkering.” He accused the GOC of the 6 Division of compromising security in Rivers State through illegal actions. He said: “We will have a security meeting and he will release the details to criminals. And the Chief of Army Staff will leave the man here because he is playing their role. “How will security of the state be with such a man as the GOC? He will compromise when fighting to reduce crime. They sent us a GOC who destroyed the security architecture of the state.” He added: “A man came to plot coup. The people resisted him for plotting coup. You want to impose a party that has no candidate for National Assembly and State Assembly elections on the people. How will such a party win the governorship election? A party that nobody has seen their posters. Rivers people said no.”He has result sheets. Let him bring the result sheets to the tribunal. Army now has result sheets. That is now part of their mandate.” Wike assured the Commander of Joint Task Force Operation Delta Safe that the Rivers State Government will support their operations to ensure that they defend the Niger Delta, especially Rivers State. He said: “Anybody who wants to help us fight crime, I will support. I will never support those involved in illegal refineries.” Real Admiral Akinrinade thanked the governor for the supply of gunboats, security vehicles and finances for security operations in the area. He assured the governor that the Joint Task Force will not relent in fighting crime in the state, just as he appealed to leaders to engage youths to shun crime and criminality for the development of the state. “Governor Wike is a consummate politician and grassroots leader. As a man who understands national security, he understands that national security itself is Local. “We want to seriously commend you on your numerous achievements you’ve made since your tenure. I will like to take this opportunity to congratulate the governor on the renewal of your mandate to serve the people of Rivers State for another four years,” he said.