Plateau State University (PLASU), Bokkos Vice- Chancellor, Prof. Yohana Daniel Izam said the institution would continue to sustain its academic excellence by keeping faith with the dream and aspirations of the founding fathers. He said part of the dream was to create unhindered access to qualitative university education for qualified sons and daughters of the state, and other Nigerians, as well as provide the required manpower that will enhance the overall development of the country. The Vice-Chancellor, who spoke during an interactive session with the graduating students of the university, where he pointed out that some students of the institution were not only making the university proud, but also making great exploit in their academic work. For instance, he noted that three students of the institution, Dorcas Bello, Hosea Gumbias Isaac and Japhet Waziri, recently emerged the Best Documentary Winner of African International Film Festival; fifth position in the IET World Competition, and Best Actor in the Nigerian Universities Theatre Arts Festival (NUTAF), respectively. Izam, therefore, tasked the products of the university to go into the world with confidence and make the institution proud by excelling in their respective fields of endeavour. Speaking further the Vice- Chancellor, said the university was currently graduating over 600 students and explained that the establishment of the university was to create access to qualitative university education. He recalled how in the past, parents were reluctant to enroll their children to the university, saying the trend has changed with the recent admission exercise in which over 6,000 candidates applied for admission into the university out of whom only 1,500 would be admitted based on the National Universities Commission’s (NUC) approved carrying capacity for the ivory tower. On examination malpractice, the Vice-Chancellor explained that the policy was instituted to enforce transparency in the system, as well as ensure that students shun sharp practices and conduct themselves in line with the rules and regulations of the institution. He urged the students to study hard and pass their examinations without necessarily indulging in examination malpractice, saying as a way of rewarding hard work, the university would retain those who graduated with First Class Division as Graduate Assistants, while those with other good grades may be considered for employment in different capacities whenever there are opportunities. Earlier in a paper entitled: “Plateau State University 2018 Students: Leaving a Legacy,” the Director of Advancement and Linkages, Dr. Andrew Danjuma Dewan, challenged the graduates to learn to give back to the university and society by impacting on the younger ones through scholarship, endowment and other programmes that would enhance the education of the less-privileged students in the university. In his goodwill message, the Dean of Students’ Affairs, Dr. Jurji Gomos advised the graduates to be good ambassadors of the University by representing it well in their various endeavours.