Renewed cults clash has claimed two lives in Calabar South Local Government Area of Cross River State.  The clash, which occurred on Saturday between suspected cult groups, Klans and axe members, was said to have claimed life of a young man popularly known as ‘Last Born’ while the identity of the other one was unknown as at the time of filling this report.
The killing, which took place at Mayne Avenue by Ekpo Abasi and Abasi Edem streets in the state capital, caused pandemonium as people ran helter-skelter for their lives.  A witness, who refused giving his name, said: “We were at Mayne Avenue by Ekpo Abasi on Saturday night when we saw people running and shouting, and of course, we are used to it in this environment, we even call it ‘Temple Run,’ so we took to our heels after hearing sporadic gunshots.  “When the atmosphere became calm a little, I heard people shouting and some rejoicing that, ‘him cup don full’ and as people were trying to help the victim, they realised he is a known cultist who goes by the name ‘Last Born’.  “Before we could say ‘Jack Robinson’, the police swung into action and the whole place was deserted. However, the police later recovered the corpse of Last Born from the road side.” It was learnt that the death of Last Born reverberated in Abasi Edem Street, where another person was shot dead. Some residents of Calabar South attributed the renewed clash to last month’s war which claimed one victim, known as “Change Life.” They said the current clash was to revenge the death of Change Life.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Irene Ugbo, confirmed that two people died in the latest clash. Ugbo said immediately the information came to the police, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and Anti-Cultism swung into action and arrested the situation.
She said: “For now, police have arrested four suspects and three locally-made pistols recovered from them. We have been warning the youth to desist from cultism but they refused. Police are equal to the task and we are ready for them.”