Management of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba- Akoko AAUA) has denied hike in tuition other the previously ratified from N30, 000 to N150, 000 by the institution’s Governing Body just as it described students’ unrest over hiked tuition as unnecessary. AAUA Registrar, Mr. Opeoluwa Akinfemiwa said the school fees still remained between N80.000 and N150.000 and payable twice in a session. Akinfemiwa in a statement said it was not true that the university had once again, increased fees payable in the institution to N200.000 and N250.000. He said: “While we do not want to speculate on why they are toeing this path of lies and infamy, management wishes to state firmly and unequivocally that there is no new increase of school fees in AAUA. “Current school fees in AAUA range between N80, 000 and N150, 000. The students are allowed to pay twice between N40, 000 and N75, 000 per semester. “The demand during the recent protest of students was for the university to allow those who have not paid their school fees to write tests/examinations while they pay their school fees later. “Parents and guardians are advised to ensure that their children and wards pay their school fees without delay, especially since they have the option of paying twice over two semesters. “For the avoidance of doubt, the schedule of school fees charged in AAUA, with effect from April 2018 range between N80,000 and N150,000 per year, depending on course or level of study.” “The above figures were negotiated with relevant stakeholders, including the students and their parents, and finalized in April last year. It is instructive to note that almost a session has passed since then and students have paid without any issue. “It is, therefore, surprising that some people are now coming up with issue of reduction in school fees – an issue that was negotiated, agreed upon and finalized in 2018, a period of over a year ago! “Management is hereby urging members of the public to note that the school fees payable in Adekunle Ajasin University remain as negotiated with the students since April last year. “All lies, insinuations, and rumours contrary to the above stated facts should be ignored and discountenanced please.” However, men of the Ondo State police Command yesterday dispersed protesting students of the State owned tertiary institutions with tear gas.