 The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN) has revealed that an Abuja-based firm, Pow Technologies Limited, is one of the contractors that should be blamed for some failed electricity projects in the country. He disclosed that the firm was, in 2014, awarded a contract for the supply and installation of test and maintenance equipment relays to various NAPTIN regional training centres (RTCs) (LOT15), with the total contract sum of N87,763,302.40, out of which it had already been paid N79,404,892.66. The disclosure was contained in a letter written by the minister to a rights organization, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) in response to its Freedom of Information (FOI) request on the failed power projects across the country.
The organization had, in the FOI request, asked Fashola to reveal the identities of contractors that allegedly collected money for electricity projects, but failed to execute same. However, in a letter with reference number FMP/LU/R2K/2016/T/40 and signed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Power, Louis O.N. Edozien, on behalf of the minister, Pow Technologies Limited was said to have supplied only 13 of the 19 items covered by the contractual agreement since 2014. The ministry said that while the contractor undertook to take remedial action, it has failed to complete the project for which funds have been released. It stated that a petition was submitted to the Commissioner of Police, Abuja on 13th January 2016, over the matter, with the police instituting a case for the prosecution of Messrs Pow at the Upper Area Court. The ministry also said it has sought and received legal advice to pursue a civil action at the FCT High Court while a report of criminal breach of contract has been made to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Responding to the minister’s letter, SERAP asked that other contractors involved in the failed power projects should be named. The organization said: “We welcome Mr. Fashola’s latest response and the information regarding Pow Technologies Limited. But we need details of names of other contractors that have collected public funds, yet failed to execute power projects. “We will continue to push the ministry and its agencies to reveal more details of alleged corrupt contractors and companies, as contained in our FOI request.
“We will continue to pursue our FOI suit at the Federal High Court in Lagos, before Justice Chuka Austine Obiozor, a Professor of Law, who has granted an order for leave in the case.” Transmission Company of Nigeria has completed a 30/40MVA 132/33kV transmission substation project in Wudil, Kano State and a brand new 60MVA 132/33kV power transformer in Akure, Ondo State. The transformer and substation project would be officially commissioned by the Minister of Power Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola SAN,… In “News” ...rejects DPR’s N355m proposal for foreign trips Lawmakers turn back Fashola The Senate Committee on Power, Steel Development and Metallurgy has queried the N10 billion solar power projects for nine universities, wondering why the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) planned spending a huge sum of N10 billion to provide solar street… In “News” Wednesday, August 30th approval by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for the award of the contract for the engineering, procurement and construction of the 3,050 MW Mambila Hydro Electric Power Project reflects President Muhammadu Buhari’s strong commitment to the development of infrastructure in the country. After more than 40… In “Opinions”