The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, has ordered the immediate shutdown of all outposts of the Special Anti- Robbery Squad (SARS) in the state. The number one policeman in the state, who gave the instruction last week, said that the SARS operatives were deliberately working outside their job description. The implication of the order is that all SARS operatives with outposts in different parts of Lagos and police stations will return to the state command, Ikeja. According to a source, “The SARS men had already started returning to base. They have returned their rifles and came to base with their suspects.” Henceforth, instructions or distress calls for SARS operatives will mean leaving the command to head to wherever the call came from. Security stakeholders and analysts have argued that SARS operatives, working from outposts were difficult to monitor and control. The first SARS outpost in Lagos State was during the administration of Kayode Aderanti, now a retired Assistant-Inspector General of Police (AIG). Kayode created the outpost in Ikorodu when militants were operating with impunity and kidnapping victims. The militants also attacked police stations. The Ikorodu SARS outpost was created to check the activities of the militant kidnappers in that axis. During the administration of Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi in Lagos, he duplicated more SARS outposts in different parts of the state. The shutdown of all SARS outposts started after SARS operatives, operating from Ijora Police Station, acting on a petition, went to arrest an alleged armed robber. The SARS team was led by an Inspector of Police. The policemen were attacked by members of the community, while the Inspector was badly injured. The source said: “The instruction right now is that all SARS outposts, except for Onilekere and Ikorodu, should be shutdown. “The CP said that the outposts should be shut down because SARS operatives were not doing what they were expected to do. The shutdown was caused by SARS operatives from Ijora Police Station. According to them, they received information and also a petition, that a man had a gun and had been using it to rob. When they got there, they arrested the suspect.Unfortunately, the place was close to an Indian hemp joint. When the suspect was picked, people came out and prevented the SARS operatives from taking him away. “The suspect’s wife also came out and started struggling with the SARS men. For reasons nobody could fathom, the wife suddenly fell to the ground and fainted. Nobody touched her. The people started shouting that SARS men had killed somebody. The SARS men were attacked and the inspector that led the team was seriously injured. “During the commotion, the suspect, who was in handcuffs escaped. The wife, who had earlier fainted, got up and also disappeared. When the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Ijora Police Station heard about the incident, he was angry. He called the Deputy Commis-sioner of Police, in charge of Operations (DC Ops) and told him that the SARS operatives were causing problem in the community. He told the DC that the SARS men beat up somebody, leading to the victim, a woman, fainting. The DPO said he didn’t want SARS operatives anymore; that instead of doing their work, they were causing problem. “The DCP was angry and said that the CP had ordered that all SARS outposts be close and every SARS operative to return to base.” The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, when asked about the incident, said it was a lie. He added: “It’s not true. I’m not aware. If it’s true, I would have known because it’s a policy issue. And if it’s true, I would have made a press release on it.”