A man, Onyekwere Aji, suspected to be mentally ill, attacked villagers at Ikpamaodo, Enugu Ezike in Igbo Eze North Local Government Area of Enugu State with machete. Onyekwere inflicted injuries on a mother of six, identified simply as Nwaka, and a vigilante, who tried to stop him from attacking others. On Tuesday evening, a witness said the man went to the bush where Nwaka was cutting grasses for her domestic animals and cut her head with a machete. The attacker left the victim in a pool of blood to die. However, the woman was lucky as help came to her early. Villagers rushed her to a hospital in the area. Witnesses said after giving the woman several machete cuts, instead of running away, Onyekwere waited to see if help would come for her or probably to attack more people. It was learnt that one of the woman’s children heard her mother’s cries and rushed to the scene. The child raised the alarm which attracted the villagers. It was when the villagers tried to wrest the machete from Onyekwere that he attacked one of the vigilantes before he was overpowered. The angry villagers tied the attacker to a pole in the village market while waiting for the progress report from the two victims receiving treatment at the hospital. Speaking with journalists on her hospital bed, Nwaka said she and Onyekwere were neighbours but she did not do anything to him except that one day he planted a banana tree on their own land and she reminded him that where he planted belonged to her. The woman said that while they were arguing, neighbours advised her to let him be which she did not knowing that he had been nursing ill feelings against her ever since. She said: “He is my neighbour’s son. I know that he is not normal and when he planted banana on our land, I let him be when neighbours advised me to leave him. I don’t know if that was why he came for me.” The vigilante, who was also admitted in the same hospital, narrated how he was attacked when they went to retrieve the machete from Onyekwere. He said: “When we heard what happened, we went in a group to take away the machete from him. He was in the house when we came but we did not know that he was hiding. When he saw us, he charged at us with his machete. While I was running to escape, I tripped and he caught up with me. He gave me cuts before others descended on him and wrested the machete from him.” Some villagers said though Onyekwere had mental illness, he had never attacked anyone with a machete, which he had always taken. “We were surprised that he attacked somebody with machete because he had been going about with the machete for a long time but never used it on anybody. “I used to avoid him any time I saw him with a machete. He even went and climbed my palm tree the other day and I did not say anything to him,” said a villager, who identified himself as Francis. Because of what happened, the villagers from neighbouring communities have been converging on the hospital to sympathise with the wounded. Some people said that since Onyekwere’s relatives knew his condition, they ought to have either chained him or taken him to a psychiatric hospital.