My reading of the 252-page book of Lt.-Gen. Ishaya Rizi Bamaiyi (rtd.) titled “VINDICATION OF A GENERAL” led me to one conclusion. That the Nigerian Army has not been combat ready from the time the civil war ended on January 15, 1970 and the time they finally handed over power on May 29, 1999. They were not combat ready, hence they were planning coups and counter coups. Our military were not fully engaged in combat and since they are being engaged now with Boko Haram we are hearing less about coups. General Bamaiyi was Chief of Army Staff between 1996 and 1999. I feel he should know about the workings in the military. The book was published in 2014, but certain contents of the book are still very relevant. General Bamaiyi declared in the book “the biggest casualties of the forays of the Nigerian military into the political arena discipline, respect for seniority, hierarchy of command and loyalty from above. These are time-honoured values that have sustained the military as an organization and set it apart from many other modern organisations. At the core of the problem which I try to highlight in this book is the impact of the erosion of discipline in the Nigerian military, and how patronage crept into the military because of adventure into power. Once junior officers became beneficiaries of juicy political appointments and had access to untold wealth and influence in the ruling circles, insubordination of junior officers to senior officers became the norm rather the exception.” It is for this reason that Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution, though it recognizes the role of the military in supporting internal security operations, makes this role complementary as important and as desirable as it may be. What this means is that in practical terms it may be difficult to divorce the military especially of developing nations, from politics and power. The real issue however is that of maintaining a delicate balance between the allurement of power and politics on the one hand and the demands of professionalism including respect for discipline on the other hand. The Nigerian military, modelled after that of her British colonial masters, was expected to be apolitical and to be truly professional by sticking to its traditional role of defending the territory of the Nigerian state from external aggression. But this was never to be, as the experience of many West African countries, including that part of Nigeria, showed within one decade of obtaining independence from their colonial masters. It could be that for Nigeria and many African countries in similar situations direct military takeover of power could be inevitable considering the behaviour of the politicians who took over power at independence. There are some claims in the book that are challengeable. In the book General Bamaiyi claimed that he was detained for more than eight years because he was opposed to a military man (General Olusegun Obasanjo) from taking over from General Abdusalami Abubakar. That was his claim. It now looks as if his wish may materialize soon. After 1999, we saw quite a number of former military officers rushing to party politics and signifying their intentions for elective posts. And we were wondering then where it would lead to. They included Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, Brig.- Gen. Tunji Olurin, Col. Ahmadu Ali, Col. Joseph Akaagerger, Lt.-Gen. Saliu Ibrahim, Brig.-Gen. John Shagaya, Admiral Murtala Nyako, General Aliyu Gusau, Major General Lawrence Onoja, Colonel Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Commodore Olabode George, Brig.-Gen. Tunde Ogbeha, Brig.-Gen. David Mark and a few others. Gradually they are being “deleted” by the people themselves while some have completely withdrawn from party politics. I am talking about elective office and party politics not appointments for we still have Brig.-Gen. Mansur Dan Alli, Col. Ibrahim Hammed Ali and Lt.-Gen. Abdurahman Danbazau still holding political appointments today. I hear from the grapevine that the former Governor of Lagos State, Brig.- Gen. Buba Marwa (64) is coming to the villa in a higher capacity as well as the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai. Marwa’s coming which is under the sponsorship of someone close to the President may be designed to take care of the President’s first constituency, the military, which he did not accommodate in his first term. The retired military officers are complaining about their plight. There is also Adamu Adamu, the Accountant/Journalist, the present Minister of Education from Bauchi, who I am told is coming to the villa also.With the recent defeat of Lt.-Gen. Jeremiah Useni (76) in the gubernatorial election in Plateau State, there are only two military officers occupying elective posts today in the country. They are General Buhari and Rear Admiral (rtd.) Gboribiogha John Jonah, the present deputy governor of Bayelsa State, who is from Nembe. And his term ends in February next year. General Buhari was recently re-elected and all things being equal, his term will end in 2023. General Buhari came last to the political scene among former military officers and he may be the last to go. It may be too early to write the political obituary of the military in our body politics, for anything can happen before 2023. But let us indulge ourselves in bidding the military bye bye for the time being in our body politics. Their everlasting contribution was that they forced the expensive Presidential system of government on us without a plebiscite or a referendum. They also forced on us two constitutions – 1979 and 1999. And we had no choice than to endure. After they have fully gone from the scene, we can sit down and reorganize our lives. In the 58 years of post-independence era, military officers, either elected or not elected, have ruled us for about 42 years out of 59 years now. By 2023, they would have ruled us for 46 years. I think that should be enough. For good or for bad an era is ending.  •Teniola, a retired director in the federal civil service, writes from Lagos.