The lingering battle between the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige and the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) over the board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), took a nasty turn yesterday as some hoodlums attacked labour leaders, journalists and other workers who were picketing the minister’s Asokoro residence. The hoodlums, numbering about 50, beat up labour leaders, journalists and workers, who were at the minister’s residence, in protest over his refusal to inaugurate the board of the NSITF. The assailants, suspected to be working for Ngige, descended on the protesters with stones, sticks, bottles and other weapons which left nine persons wounded. New Telegraph gathered that the protest started as early as 5a.m. yesterday, with the protesters blocking the entrance of the minister’s private residence with two tankers, to prevent him from leaving his house. All efforts to get the labour leaders to remove the tankers fell on deaf ears as the workers insisted they would continue with the picketing. However, this development did not go down well with the minister who had to leave his house at about 6 a.m. through a different route. Other workers who arrived at about 7:30 a.m. to join the picketing were stopped from gaining access to the minister’s residence by members of the Nigeria Police, Department of State Services (DSS) and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) who had been deployed to the premises. Trouble started about an hour later when a group of suspected thugs alighted from a white Toyota Hiace bus, all dressed in black attire with the inscription “Police Swat” on some of their shirts, moved to the entrance to Ngige’s residence, where some of the workers and labour leaders were already stationed. After a while, some of the suspected thugs later came out from the other side of the street and joined forces with their colleagues at the scene. These suspected hoodlums, armed with stones, sticks, bottles and other weapons started beating those they could lay their hands on, and destroyed a vehicle belonging to the NLC and another belonging to a reporter with the African Independent Television (AIT). They ended up injuring scores of workers, and a journalist with Premium Times who was doing her legitimate duties. While the hoodlums had a field day terrorising the protesters, operatives of the police, DSS and NSCDC just stood there watching the drama. NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, who escaped being lynched by the group, said about nine workers were injured out of which two were in a critical condition. He said that those injured were taken to the National Hospital Abuja for treatment. According to Wabba, the Central Working Committee (CWC) and National Administrative Council (NAC), organs of the Congress, have been summoned for an emergency meeting today to deliberate on the sad development. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently intervene in the on-going disharmony between organised labour and Ngige, over the chairmanship of the board of NSITF, which has delayed the board’s inauguration. “The act today is barbaric, where maximum force has been used upon workers and live bullets used on them. “Whereas workers went with bare hands, the thugs were carrying weapons and arms. And, as I talk to you, we have nine people in the hospital apart from those that were injured by bullets,” he said. Wabba further vowed that the NLC was not going to chicken out, but would invite more workers to continue the protest. According to him, “We are going to invite our largest organ by tomorrow (today). We are also going to descend on his residence with a larger scale of action. He has no reason to be called Minister of Labour. He is a lord of his own and, therefore, instead of protecting us, he is against us. “Therefore, we have nothing to do with him and under the circumstance, except Mr. President intervenes, workers are going to certainly down tools. That is why we are calling our central working committee. “It has never been so bad where a Minister of Labour will bring thugs to attack workers. That has never been heard of. It is on record and everybody has seen. “That is our position and now we are here to demonstrate in his office also to show that we are not happy. Therefore, Mr. President must act on this immediately. Workers voted and supported him; Ngige cannot under any circumstance assume the power of the President. That cannot be the case,” he added. Meanwhile, President of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas (NUPENG), William Apkoreha, has said two of the union members were missing following the attacks by thugs at the minister’s residence. ‘We are embarking on peaceful protest. Two of my members are missing and I cannot to fold my arms. We will maintain sanity until 12 midnight. If we do not hear from them, then every oil and gas workers in the country will enter the street to look for their members,” he said. New Telegraph visited the National Hospital, Abuja where the injured were conveyed and saw nine workers who were receiving treatment for wounds sustained during the fracas. However, Ngige has debunked claims that he hired thugs to beat up the labour leaders, workers and journalists who were at his residence uninvited. A statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media, Mr. Nwachukwu Obidiwe, noted that the minister and members of his family were still in a traumatic state, due to the invasion targeted at preventing the Ngige family from leaving their residence.” The private residence of the Hon. Minister of labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige was early this morning (4 a.m.) invaded by the President of the NLC, Comrade Ayuba Waba and his members. “These members, among whom are tanker drivers, some with ferocious looks, also barricaded the gate to the residence of the Hon. Minister with two long trucks. They chanted war songs and prevented the Hon. Minister, his wife, children and other aides from either leaving or gaining access to the compound. “Comrade Wabba later left and returned with a reenforcement. The presence of these strange faces and mounting war songs sent heavy panic on the family members, especially children and female aides who thought the sudden early morning assemblage were of the underworld. “Some of these unknown faces and the two tanker lorries blocking the entrance to the house are still there as I send this press statement. “I, therefore, wish to state that contrary to reports being mischievously circulated in the media by the NLC President, the Hon. Minister, family members who are still in great trauma and his staff members did not invite thugs, have no knowledge of it, or have a hand in the alleged manhandling of any worker,” the statement read. NLC had given the minister an ultimatum to inaugurate the board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund with Chief Frank Kokori as the chairman. The union claimed Ngige was responsible for the change of the appointment of Kokori to chair the Labour Institute in Ilorin. That ultimatum, which expired on May 1, led to yesterday’s protest by labour in Abuja. Following the altercation between organised labour and the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, over board constitution of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has reminded the minister that the organised labour is not in any way surbodinate either to him or… In “Business” The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has said it would picket all agencies and departments under the Ministry of Labour and Employment starting from May 8, 2019.   That was as a result of 'the continued refusal' of the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, to inaugurate the board… In “News” There was pandemonium yesterday as Nigerian workers revolted against the Federal Government during the May Day rally held at the Eagle Square, Abuja. The protest prevented the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari at the ceremony, from delivering the presidential address to the… In “News”