President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will be sworn in today for another term of office. Their inauguration, yet again, comes with high expectations from Nigerians. ANULE EMMANUEL takes a look at the modest strides of the government in the last four years and the future that lies ahead for Nigeria  The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari will today begin yet another journey of leadership. This second coming christened the Next Level was the theme of his second term campaign. At the famous Eagle Square in Abuja, Buhari and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, will be administered the oath of office and allegiance by the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed for a second term which expires on May 29, 2023. Time, they say flies like an arrow.  Most Nigerians are moving into the next phase of the government with high expectations and trust, the same reason for progressive and sustainable development which is believed to have given the President and his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) victory in the 2019 presidential election. President Buhari at the inception of his government in May 29, 2015, promised to focus on three critical areas of fighting corruption, tackling insecurity and boosting the economy to create jobs for the country’s teeming youth.  While a cross-section of Nigerians hold a strong view that the administration in the last four years fared averagely in delivering meaningfully in various sectors of the economy, others think otherwise. Critics observe that his victory may not have been necessary, a referendum on performance. For the President and his officials, the victory at the February 23, 2019 polls was nothing but a validation of the government’s performance by the electorate.  How will the government reciprocate this unalloyed loyalty from followers who have sworn to swim or drown with the administration, remains the question on the lips of many begging for answers.
During a valedictory meeting penultimate week with members of his cabinet at the presidential villa, President Buhari told the ministers to exit the government with shoulders very high, having performed creditably. The cabinet was unveiled with fanfare, six months after Buhari was sworn-in on May 29, 2015. According to the President, his decision to retain the cabinet throughout the lifetime of the outgoing administration was based on the qualities of the members and their commitment to service, which yielded positive results.  This is what he told the ministers; “I want you all to leave this meeting proud to have served your nation to the best of your ability. You should be proud to have been part of the government that liberated the local governments previously under Boko Haram rule.” Before the emergence of the administration, members of the Boko Haram sect had taken full control of 17 local government areas in the North-East where they hoisted their flags. In the same region, the insurgents had kidnapped several school girls.  Also, the herdsmen/farmers crisis witnessed in Benue, Taraba, Nasarawa, Kaduna, Plateau, Kogi, and states, as well as activities of bandits and kidnapping across the country seemed to have dwarfed the modest achievements recorded by the government in the security sector. Thousands of lives have unfortunately been lost to some of these incidents which persist.
Convinced that his government has done well, Buhari while bidding farewell to the ministers, stressed further that: “You should be proud to have contributed to our food security and economic diversification agenda which led to the revival of our rural agrarian economy.”
He explained that members of the outgoing cabinet must not leave without being proud as part of a team that developed the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) which helped Nigeria exit its worst recession in decades.  The President continued: “You should be proud to have introduced the social investment programme that enhanced the livelihoods of millions of Nigerians. You should be proud to have participated in settling outstanding pensions of many senior citizens abandoned by previous governments while supporting state governments to meet their salary arrears.”
According to him, the performance of his outgoing ministers also led to most of the successes recorded such as the ambitious road, rail and airport rehabilitation programs in the history of the country. “I want to put on record, that your achievements in the last three and a half hears have guaranteed your position in the history books of this nation. You have certainly built the foundations for an improved economy and a more purposeful government,” he said.  The government insists that all these happened even though it inherited a broken economy which eventually went into recession in the second quarter of the 2016 fiscal year, a situation compounded by insecurity and massive corruption.
Although the coast is yet unclear on the agenda for this sector, those sympathetic to Buhari’s cause, argue that the administration has succeeded in halting in no small extent, exogenous leakages in the system thereby increasing the country’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) index and foreign exchange capacity and reserve to over $45billion in cash and bonds.
The fight against corruption by the government in the last four years has also not come without criticism. The opposition, in particular, is convinced that they remain the principal target in this very agenda. Buhari and his handlers, however, think differently. In the views of the Senior Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Mr. Femi Adesina, “there was a time when Nigerians were told that stealing was not corruption. Today, under Buhari, it’s a new dawn.”  Adesina believes too that every form of stealing is being punished, and all malefactors, both high and low are being hurled before the courts and thrown into jail. Government has disclosed that public funds stolen from the national treasury and assets running into billions of Naira have since been recovered and credit to the anti-corruption war. As far as the government is also concerned, people with itchy fingers, past and present will continue to fall in trouble, and probity and accountability will remain the order of the day.  One other area which the government shows some pride of success is the oil and gas sector. The creation of the 7 Big Wins reform initiative according to the Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, has accounted for improvements in the industry, with  crude oil output increasing from 800,000 barrel per day to about two million barrels per day, among other measures. Speaking at the launch of a book on ‘Three Years of Key Achievements of the Petroleum Resources Ministry’ in Abuja recently, the minister said these feet was possible despite the administration inheriting an oil and gas sector battling with various blights like pipeline vandalism. Other challenges hitherto were restiveness in the Niger-Delta region, low oil production volumes, falling oil prices in the international market, and inadequate policies. There is no doubt that cues have vanished at filling stations across the country.  Industry players have observed that the government’s success in increasing national crude oil reserves to 37.2 billion barrels by 2017, due mainly to the discovery of Owowo field in deepwater OML 139 with an estimated one billion barrels of crude oil reserves is a significant plus. Its completion of the repair of vandalized 48” Forcados Oil Terminal (FOT) export pipeline leading to the resuscitation of over 300kbopd in deferred production that lasted over one year and two months is also a massive boost to the sector.  As Nigerians go into the next level, however, what is frightening is that, despite Buhari’s pledge to work even harder in the second term to consolidate his administration’s activities on security, economy, job creation, fight against corruption and upgrade of infrastructure, the President promises that the new the four-year mandate given to his administration will be tough. The President indeed, said so: “My last lap of four years I think is going to be tough because people are very forgetful – that was why wherever I went I reminded them of the campaign by our party of the three fundamental issues – security because you have to secure a country or an institution to manage it properly.”  Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, had also quoted President Buhari recently as saying that “This is my last lap, I will try and work even harder than I have done. I assure you that I will not let you down. I pray that my best will be good enough.”  Of interest also is that his outgoing economic team has projected three per cent GDP growth for 2019, which would be a massive improvement from the 1.9 it recorded in 2018, a projection which analysts say is a tall order. The figure is also slightly different from the economic outlook projected by the Africa Development Bank (AfDB), which forecast is 2.3 percent growth GDP in 2019 – World Bank projects 2.2 percent – and 2.4 percent in 2020. Given that high unemployment rate stands at 23.1 percent, skeptics believe these projections are still inadequate.  The promise by the President for sustained and additional investments in agriculture sector is encouraging. The contributions of agriculture to the nation’s GDP as records indicate have also been impressive, coupled with earnings from food exports. It is unarguably true that the expected hope of an Agric-driven economy for the country may have significantly been hurt by increased insecurity in parts of Nigeria. Next level targets a paradigm shift.  Buhari’s next phase of government has five new major thrusts to include, job creation, provision of infrastructure, business and entrepreneurial development, human capital enhancement services, and political inclusion. The plank of the President’s new policy initiative is hinged on the belief that the government has completed Nigeria’s ’foundational work’ upon which to build the stairs that would take the country to the next level.  Going into the second term, all of these would not come to fruition without a formidable team. Nigerians, therefore, want the President to appoint as ministers men and women that have the sound technical and economic background to drive the economy and indeed, take the country to the next level. Buhari must show more zeal in the actualisation of his mandate by choice of people that will make his new cabinet.  Also, since President Buhari retains a reputation for personal integrity and commitment to national development, his government in the next four years must give equal weight to the revival of the economy to fund public investments, especially in infrastructure, while boosting non-oil revenue through better tax compliance and enforcement, all with the view to improving the living standards of every Nigerian.