Kenny Saint Best (KSB), an entertainer and politician, is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, she speaks on women participation in politics, among other issues   You are a renowned gospel artist, why did you venture into politics?
Politics is like when you have heart for the people; just like ministry. Ministry is an assignment from God to people and the same thing for politics, when you have a heart of service. Gospel is spiritual service, while politics getting into government to serve the people. So, it is about heart for the people; heart for improvement, heart to see justice being meted to the people, heart to cater for the needy, seeing the yearnings of the people and knowing what it takes address issues in terms of your exposure and experience.
For me, what pulled me into politics was that I saw the gap between the government and the Nigerian youth; the gap between the government and entertainment and we in the entertainment sector. We have been able to see the yearnings of young people; the desire to be heard and seen, to be appreciated, loved and paid for what they know how to do. I also saw disconnect between young people and the government and I felt that I can bridge the gap. Would you say that you have been able to achieve your aim in politics since you joined about five years ago?
I have not being able to, but God helping me, I will achieve my goal. I came out five years ago to contest for a seat in the Lagos State House of Assembly during the 2015 general elections, so that I can join the legislative arm of government to see if there are bills that can be passed or things to be done in those area I am agitating for, but I didn’t get the opportunity. I believe it was not my turn. I have now found out that my agitation cannot actually be addressed by the legislative arm, but the executive arm. So, what I did this time was to work with the governor-elect, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, during the campaign period. I worked with the media and publicity department of the campaign organization and I did a lot in terms of entertainment; getting some notable icons in the entertainment industry to work with the campaign organisation. Your first baptism fire in politics in 2015 didn’t yield the expected result considering your inability to win the All Progressives Congress (APC) State Assembly ticket. How do you feel about that and did that experience discouraged you from politics?
Not at all! It was my entry point in politics and it is not every time that you come out for the very first time that you get it. I still have to learn many things about the intricacies of politics and how to serve. There are leaders, who you must learn from because you need experience for you to be able to perform in public offices. So you believe experience counts in politics?
It really counts. The connection with the people is the first thing and that is why every politics is local. When I was contesting in 2015, I was just coming from the entertainment industry and I didn’t know much about my locality; the people and political players in my community. As a politician and someone contesting for public office, you need to know the yearnings of the people and peculiarity about your community. You need to know the yearnings of the youth and women in your locality. If I have not made a move about five years ago, I wouldn’t know that. I have now moved from being a rooky politician to become someone who consulted in my constituency. What is your take on women participation in politics in Nigeria?
Women are doing enough, but they have not been given enough opportunity. Why do have such belief?
Women have not been given enough opportunity as politics is still male dominated. But women have more votes than men. Why can’t they use their voting strength to fight for space in politics?
You can fight as long as you can, but as long as you are not empowered, you cannot achieve result. It is about empowerment. You have to be positioned to serve. Do you know how many women yearning to serve, but what can they do if the opportunity is not there? But despite the limitation, some of us are still offering services and we are not doing it for us to be paid. We are doing it because of the zeal to serve. You worked with the Babajide Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation; what should Lagosians expect from his administration?
Sanwo-Olu has already highlighted what he wants to do for a greater Lagos. The acronym of his developmental plan is THEME. “T” stands for Transportation and Traffic Management, “H” is for Health and Environment, “E” is for Education and Technology, “M” is for Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy, and “E” is for Entertainment and Tourism, which is my area of interest. Sanwo-Olu is coming in to ensure a greater Lagos.