Shareholders of FBN Holdings Group Plc at the bank’s 7th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos endorsed the N932 billion dividend recommended by the Board of Directors for the 2018 financial year. The dividend amount to 26 kobo per 50 kobo ordinary share of the company. Speaking at the AGM, former President, Nigeria Shareholders Solidarity Association (NSSA), Sir Sunny Nwosu, former Coordinator, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN) lauded the bank for what it was doing despite harsh operating environment. Nwosu appealed to the market regulators to reduce the rate of fines and penalties melted on quoted companies.
He stated that regulators were witch hunting shareholders investments with fines and penalties. Nwosu said that market regulators should be more concerned with the growth of the capital market by ensuring friendly policies. “We appreciate the risk management strategies and the corporate governance approach taken by the bank,” he said.
Another shareholders, Alhaji Umar Faruk commended the bank for the performance achieved in 2017 in spite of challenging operating environment. He said that the shareholders were happy with the bank’s performance, dividend declared and accessibility despite restricted funds and advised the bank to do more in future. Addressing shareholders at the meeting, the Group Chairman, Oba Otudeko said: As we commenced the final year of our 2017-2019 strategic planning programme, we e, we expect increased competition and chaand changing industry dynamics in the financial services space. This is primarily due to the Central Bank’s published guidelines on the nging industry dynamics in the financial services space. This is primarily due to the Central Bank’s published guidelines on the licensing of payment services banks in Nigeria, which will allow non-financial institutions such as telecommunication companies to provide basic financial services to customers for the first time”. “Nevertheless, we are resolute about delivering on our strategic objectives for this year, as the board and management work together to ensure that we create shareholder value and build strong foundations for the future, we are not resting on our laurels and our renewed approach to synergy and innovation will be major drivers to unlocking earnings potential for our group”.
FBN Holdings posted a 31.4 per cent growth in profit after tax for the full year ended December 31, 2018. The audited financial report made available to newsmen showed a Profit after tax of N59.7 billion, up 31.4 per cent y-o-y from N45.5 billion the previous year. Profit before tax stood at N65.3 billion, up 19.7 per cent y-o-y from N54.5 billion posted in 2017 Gross earnings amounted to N583.5 billion from N595.4 billion in 2017, representing a marginal drop of 2.0 per cent y-o-y which according to the management was due to a 7.5 per cent decline in interest income on the back of a decrease in the loan book as well as the depressed yield environmentwhich led to a decline in income from investment securities. However, the drop in gross earnings was partially offset by the 15.8 per cent y-o-y growth in non-interest income. Interest income and non-interest income contributed 74.5 per cent and 22.6 per cent as against 2017’s 78.9 per cent and 19.1 per cent respectively to gross earnings. Net Interest income decreased by 14.3 per cent y-o-y to N284.2 billion from N331.5 billion posted the previous year largely on account of the contraction in the loan book and the decline in investment securities’ income, which were in part mitigated by an increase in income from loans to banks. Income from customer loans declined by 9.1 per cent y-o-y to N262.4 billion as against N288.6 billion recorded in 2017.