Clerics in Ogun state yesterday told the Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun to learn from and avoid pitfalls of former governors in the state if he must run a successful administration.  Besides, they warned Abiodun, who would be sworn in on Wednesday as the fifth elected governor of the state not to allow “side attractions of office” to distract him. In his sermon at a preinauguration service held at the All Saints Anglican Church, Ilaro, in honour of the governor-elect, the Bishop of Yewa, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Rt. Revd Michael Olu  warohunbi, urged Abiodun to be fair and ensure even distribution of developmental projects across the state. Oluwarohunbi stressed the need for the incoming administration to harness both human and natural resources of the state for its socio-economic development. According to him, Abiodun’s victory at the polls was ordained by God and not as a result of the governor-elect’s popularity, wealth or formidable campaign team.  He said: “There is nothing wrong in seeking positions. But every position has responsibilities attached and that is where we are getting it wrong. The vicious circle must end in your reign. “God has put you there for a purpose. You must be ready to meet the needs of the people. I can see that God has placed you in this position to project Ogun State as a shining example.”  Also, another cleric and Vicar of the church, Venerable Stephen Abiodun asked the governor-elect to be wary of sycophantic aides and self-seeking politicians. The cleric, however, asked God to help Abiodun handle politicians who had worked in the administrations of ex-governors Olusegun Osoba and Gbenga Daniel as well as outgoing governor Ibikunle Amosun. He said: “Look at the pitfalls of your predecessors and learn from them. By the time you learn, your administration would be the best in the state.  “There are those who worked with Osoba, who are now working with you. There are people who worked with Daniel who are now with you. Also, there are people who worked with Amosun who are now following you. May God give you the wisdom to handle their antics.”