 An exhibition of rare art works by legendary artist, Prof. Bruce Onobrapkeya opened recently at The Wheatbaker, Ikoyi, Lagos.  The exhibition titled “Eni! You Can Always Tell Where the Elephant Has Passed by!” is to mark Prof. Onobrapkeya’s 60 years of stellar career as an artist, dating to his first exhibition in 1959 in Ughelli, during his student days at the Nigerian College of Arts Science and Technology, Zaria. The rare prints presented in the exhibition provide highlights of not just his life and works, but an important chronicle of the country post-independence era.  With Eni!, Prof. Onobrapkeya shows how he has carried the artistic community along as a father and a grandfather of contemporary art movement in the country.  “Eni in Urhobo language means an elephant. The elephant is the biggest animal in the forest; by the time it passes through the wet land the foot creates a kind of pool which gathers water, and other small animals come to drink from. For a leader, one should be able to create a pool so that lots of people will drink,” he said.  The 36 prints on display in the special commemorative exhibition curated by Sandra Mbanefo Obiago of SMO Contemporary Art, give insight into creative engagement of Onobrakpeya, and show he is a master in printmaking who has transverse the globe with his works.  “We are excited to be exhibiting Okpogho (The Hornbill), a print which dates back to his first exhibition in Ughelli in 1959, alongside Chibok Girls, a recent print he created in 2017, as homage to the kidnapped Nigerian school girls, as well as prints from his Niger Delta environmental protest series.  “He is not just one of our finest artist’s, his works are also important historical documents which showcase Nigeria’s rich history and culture, alongside socio-political events of the past sixty years,” said the exhibition curator, Obiago.  Also commenting on the exhibition, the Director of The Wheatbaker, Mosun Ogunbanjo said: “We are extremely proud to host this internationally significant exhibition of Prof. Onobrakpeya’s prints, it is important to us that both our international and local guests enjoy some of the best art Nigeria has to offer, as we confirm our commitment to using our platform to celebrate the best creativity of our master artists as well as emerging talent.”  For his immense contribution to the art, Onobrakpeya has received many awards and his works have been exhibited at the Venice Biennale in 1990, the Tate Modern in London, the National Museum of African Art of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C, the Malmö Konsthall in Malmö, Sweden and the National Gallery of Modern Art, Lagos among many others. He received the UNESCO Living Human Treasures Award in 2006.  Besides printmaking, Onobrakpeya has done paintings, sculpture, and very large installation works. The oldest work in the exhibition dates back to 1959, while the newest works are from 2019.  The exhibition starts at looking at the natural world; there is a section that look at the culture of the Urhobo’s where Prof. Onobrakpeya hail from, as well as the ethnic groups across the country. There is also a section that looks at philosophy, and mythology, proverb, folktales, Christianity where he has received awards from the Catholic Church, the Pope, Mother Theresa, St Paul, among others.  The section on Nigerian women focuses on the environmental series, the protest movement in the Niger Delta in the 80’s and 90’s.  “The women protest also came up strongly during the oil pollution in the Delta when the land was all covered with oil spill. The women protested in different way to tell the government that our land is polluted. There is no way for us to farm and do other activities. Nudity becomes a motive of protest, not only in the Delta region in Aba in 1929 and also in the time of the Kutis in 1946 in Abeokuta; it is not only related to the Urhobo, it cuts across the entire country,” Prof. Onobrakpeya said.  “In the past when things get really bad the women protest naked appealing to the ancestors to answer their call, it remain a mythology until I ran into one just approaching Sapele when the women and young men were protesting the brutal murder of one of their sons,” he added.  Supported by Louis Guntrum Wines, the exhibition will end in July, with a special reception and artist talk in June.  