The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has launched a $13.3 million education activity in collaboration with the American University of Nigeria (AUN) to re-establish basic education in the conflict-ravaged areas in northeastern Nigeria. Under a three-year agreement, AUN will collaborate with Columbia and Kent State universities in the U.S. as well as local government and commuaminenity leaders to implement the new programme called : ‘Addressing Education in Northeast Nigeria’ (AENN) in Adamawa and Gombe states. The programme, Inside Abuja learnt, was designed to improve the ability of education managers to plan and deliver basic services in line with the states’ education sector strategy. There will be a special emphasis on training female leaders. According to a statement released by the US Embassy in Abuja, the AENN will also address the social and emotional challenges that both educators and learners face from the disruptions caused by extremist insurgency. “This new activity focuses on some of the most vulnerable areas of Nigeria, where insurgents have made eradication of education a specific tenet of their policy,” said Denise O’Toole, the USAID Education Office Director. “Our support helps a major institute of higher learning in the northeast re-establish the basics of primary education for thousands of students. “AENN will address the daunting challenges facing the education systems in Adamawa and Gombe by training 100 education managers, improving the instructional skills of 5,000 teachers, and focusing specific training for female teachers in 200 primary schools. These efforts are expected to improve the learning outcomes for 200,000 primary school boys and girls,” the statement said. Access to education in the northeast has severely declined since the Boko Haram and Islamic State- West Africa insurgencies began displacing families and communities a decade ago. AENN will admaldress the resulting acute educational needs while laying a foundation to rebuild and transform the education system. It will help provide educational continuity, stabilize institutional capacity, improve the quality of teaching and learning, increase equitable access, and integrate peace building and safety considerations into school communities.