  The countdown to the end of 2019 Ramadan and Eid-el Fitri celebrations has begun in earnest with the scheduled search for the new crescent (moon) of Shawwal on Monday, June 3, 2019. While today is the last Friday in Ramadan, Monday will mark the 29 th day of the holy month – a day Muslims are enjoined to search for a new crescent. “The fasting is according to Islamic jurisprudence expected to terminate on Monday evening if the new moon is sighted and the month of Shaawal (Eid) will begin on Tuesday but in the event of not being able to sight the new moon, Ramadan will be 30 days while the Eid comes up on Wednesday,” Chief Imaam, Young Muslim Brothers and Sisiters (YOUMBAS), Ogun state and Republic of Benin, Imaam Najeemdeen Yusuf Aduralongba, said. In the same vein, the countdown for the month of Dhul-Hijjah in which 2019 Hajj operations will take place has also begun. Ramadan and Hajj are two cardinal events that are parts of the five pillars of Islam. While Ramadan is the ninth month, Dhul-Hijah is the twelfth month in theLIslamic calendar. Hajj 2019, further checks showed, would tentatively commence on Friday, 9th of August 2019 and continue till Wednesday, 14th of August 2019. This is the tentative date as the actual date is contingent on the sighting of the moon of Dhul Hijjah. Hajj, according to Saudi Gazette, is one of the five pillars of Islam. “It is obligatory to perform Hajj at least once in your lifetime, given you have the means of affordability for the pilgrimage. It is a ritual that believers embark upon for the given set of days; to rise above the routines of daily life in order to connect and get closer to Allah (SWT),” the news agency said. According to the Islamic Calendar, Muslim Pilgrimage likely to begin on the 8th day of Dhul-Hijjah and ends on the thirteenth day of the same Islamic Holy month. There are many rituals in the performance of Hajj and these may be completed over the course of the 5 days. Every year, millions Muslims participate in this Holy Pilgrimage to the city of Mecca, Saudi Arabia. “At the time of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH), Hajj was made compulsory for the Muslims to perform once in their lifetime. The overarching aim of the Hajj is to strengthen one’s faith and purify him or her of sins. Allah (SWT) mentions the benefits of Hajj as: “That they may witness benefits for themselves and mention the name of Allah on known days over what He has provided for them of [sacrificial] animals. So eat of them and feed the miserable and poor.” (Quran 22:28). “The rites of Hajj (Islamic Pilgrimage) were laid down in current form by Prophet Muhammad (PBUH). These rituals signify the sacrifices and the complete submission to Allah (SWT) by Prophet Ibrahim (RA). Thereafter, every act performed in Hajj, from performing Tawaaf and Saa’i to stoning the wall of Satan; is the reminder of faith one should have in Allah(SWT), as shown by Hazrat Ibrahim (RA),” the Saudi Gazette read.