President, Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA), Abayomi Agoro, has expressed concern over dearth of Air Traffic Controllers (ATC) in the country to effectively man all air traffic control units across the country. Agoro raised this alarm at an interactive forum between members of the body and pilots under the aegis of the Flight Crew Association of Nigeria (FCAN) in Lagos. He added that this was not only hampering service delivery but had led to a situation where the staff are overworked and may lead to significant safety implication. The NTCA boss lamented the deplorable state of the control towers in seven airports across the country, which had become a health hazard to controllers. He said it had been quite herculean for air traffic controllers to communicate effectively with pilots. According to the NATCA president, “though the relationship is symbiotic, it is a statement of fact that the air traffic controller plays a central role in the safety of the air traffic system. The pilot must trust a controller’s commands because he or she is not, in general, in receipt of enough information regarding the traffic disposition to question them. “Amongst other responsibilities, the controller reduces the pilot’s workload by taking over the role of detecting and resolving conflicts with other aircraft operating in the same or adjacent airspace and by providing warnings and advice of known weather hazards.” The dearth of controllers persists despite NAMA engaging the services of some Air Traffic Control Officers (ATCO) penultimate year to boost shortage in manpower, especially caused by ageing workforce. NATCA was of the view that in Nigeria the situation apparently calls for the employment of more air traffic controllers to reduce the tight work schedule of these professionals. According to aviation expert, air traffic controllers are people trained to maintain the safe, orderly and expeditious flow of air traffic in the global air traffic control system. The position of air traffic controller is one that requires highly specialised knowledge, skills and abilities. They also guide pilots to keep aircraft flying safely, efficiently and on time. There is no doubt that air traffic controllers are important in the aviation industry in view of their indispensable function in ensuring air safety. Therefore, government had been told not ignore the alarm over the shortage of these professionals. The expert noted that the nation’s aviation authorities should treat the concerns raised by NATCA with dispatch. The dearth of this category of workers, they said, portends great danger for air safety, particularly at a time that more airports are being built across the country. Nigeria, they said needs about 700 air traffic controllers, but has only 400, adding that it explains why the Federal Government had failed to meet its hiring goals for air traffic controllers for five years, which has left the number of air traffic controllers in the country at its lowest in 16 years. Recently, the Managing Director of NAMA, Capt. Folayele Akinkuotu, said NAMA had recently engaged the services of over 40 Air Traffic Control cadets to undergo various levels of training as recommended by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA).