Justice Rilwan Aikawa of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday dismissed a motion filed by Governor Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State seeking to quash the N1.4 billion alleged fraud charge slammed on the President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Paul Usoro (SAN) by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The governor had in the motion said the inclusion of his name on the charge by the anti-graft agency had rendered it null and void. He urged the court to decline jurisdiction to entertain the case because as a sitting governor, he cannot be prosecuted by virtue of the immunity granted him by Section 308 of the Constitution. He added that the EFCC has no locus standi to charge any of his aides to court because the fund which is the subject of the suit belongs to Akwa Ibom State Government. However, in a ruling on the motion, Justice Aikawa while agreeing with the governor that he is constitutionally immune from prosecution, said he is not a defendant in the case. The judge held that the mere mentioning of the governor’s name in the charge does not mean he is facing trial. “It is not in doubt that the applicant belongs to a class of citizens who enjoys immunity from criminal prosecution. He cannot be charged for any criminal offence. “But, the question is; is he really facing trial before the court? In this case, the complainant is the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the main defendant is Paul Usoro (SAN). He is the one that the court will make any pronouncement on and not the governor. “Therefore, the mere mentioning of the governor’s name in the charge does not mean he is facing trial. It is not enough to qualify him as a defendant. “The applicant is not part of this trial. Counts 1 to 4 remain mere statement and nothing more. They have not graduated to the status of a charge. The applicant has to be in trial before he can complain of fair hearing,” the judge held. Justice Aikawa also dismissed claims by the applicant that the EFCC lacks the powers to file charge against any of his aides. He said the anti-graft agency can validly commence action of money laundering against any person either at the Federal or State High Court. Justice Aikawa consequently dismissed the motion for lacking in merit and fixed 3rd July, 2019, as date to commence Usoro’s trial. In the charge marked FHC/418c/18, the EFCC claimed that Usoro converted and laundered the money in connivance with Governor Emmanuel. The governor was however not listed as a defendant in the charge, as the anti-graft agency indicated that he is “currently constitutionally immune against criminal prosecution.” The offence allegedly committed by the NBA President was said to be contrary to Section 18 (a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 and punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act. Some of the counts as contained in the charge read as thus: “That you Paul Usoro SAN, Emmanuel Udom (currently constitutionally immune against criminal prosecution), Uwemedimo Thomas Nwoko (still at large), Nsikan Linus Nkan (Commissioner for Finance, Akwa Ibom State) (still at large), Mfon Jacobson Udomah (Accountant General of Akwa Ibom state) (still at large) andMargaret Thompson Ukpe (still at large) sometimes in 2015 in Nigeria, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court conspired amongst yourselves to commit an offence, to wit, conversion of N1.4 billion, property of government of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria, which sum you reasonably ought to know forms part of the proceeds of an unlawful activity to wit; criminal breach of trust and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18 (a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 and punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act. “That you Paul Usoro SAN, Emmanuel Udom, Uwemedimo Thomas Nwoko, Nsikan Linus Nkan, Mfon Jacobson Udomah and Margaret Thompson Ukpe on or about the 14th day of March, 2016 in Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court converted the sum of N300 million, property of government of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria….”