…as fresh $500m loan demand hits the rock Lenders, particularly the Nigerian banks, have ignored loans requests amounting to about $500 million from investors in the modular refinery as well as fuel importation and marketing businesses, as profitability in the downstream sub-sector continues to shrink. The fresh apathy developed by lenders, investigation by New Telegraph showed, was buoyed by about N1 trillion non-performing loans earlier sunk into the sub-sector. N800 billion of these loans, further checks showed, is trapped in the subsidy payment fiasco between the Federal Government and fuel marketers. “The downstream sub-sector of the oil and gas sector is bearish and no lender is willing to stick out its neck for the sector again,” head, energy unit of one of the tier one banks told this newspaper after his anonymity had been assured. “For instance, the sector, which now has slim profit margin, has the highest number of non-performing loans of over N1 trillion,” he explained. “You will agree with me that it makes no economic sense if the fresh loan request of about $500 million from this troubled sector is not spurned.” The latest casualty in this imbroglio is the modular refinery business. “More banks have turned down requests for funding – of any type – for these all important facilities,” the source said. “The simple reason is that the oil sector retains its status on the ranking of sectors with highest non-performing loans,” another banker reiterated the position. Meanwhile, modular and conventional refinery projects are in hard times, as licenses of 17 of the refineries licensed expired without much effort by their promoters to establish them. The execution of the refinery projects was constrained by many challenges, especially by this lack of funds and difficulty associated in securing competent technical partners. The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), which is responsible for the issuance of the licenses, disclosed in an updated report obtained by this newspaper that all the modular and conventional refineries licenses were targeted to add additional 665,000 barrels per day (bpd) to the nation’s refining capacity, currently put at 445,000 bpd. Fifteen were for License to Establish, LTE, while two were for License to Construct, LTC, new plants, the report stated. Specifically, under the LTE the DPR document listed the affected companies to include Kainji Resources Limited, Eko Petroleum & Refining Company Limited, Frao Oil Nigeria Limited, Epic Refinery & Petrochemical Industries Limited, Master Energy Oil & Gas Lim  ited, and Cross Country Oil & Gas Limited. Others are Grifon Energy Limited, Sifax Oil & Gas Company Limited, Capital Oil & Gas Industries Limited, All Grace Energy Limited, Green Energy International Limited, Fresh Energy Limited, Chyzob Oil & Gas Limited, Aiteo Energy Resources Limited and Associated Worldwide Company Limited. It also stated that the companies affected under LTC are, Hi Rev Oil Limited and Amakpe International Refinery – an Akwa Ibom based plant – currently at the stage of shipping fabricated process units to Nigeria, which has already been taken over by Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) over bank loan defaults. DPR’s spokesman, Mr. Paul Osu, said in a telephone interview that some of the affected companies have applied for renewal of their licenses, adding that applications would be treated on their merits. However, the document also indicated that promoters of 38 refineries, out of 45 issued licenses between 2015 and 2018 were at various stages of execution, same stages, which the expired licensees got to and stopped.