At least four persons were killed when suspected herdsmen and farmers clashed at Iwoye area of Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State. The incident, which has ignited tension in the agrarian community, also left some police officers seriously injured. To douse tension and restore normalcy, the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, yesterday, visited the town for an on-the-spot assessment and addressed stakeholders on the need to ensure peaceful coexistence. It was learnt that the Divisional Crime Officer (DCO) in charge of Imeko and a police inspector were shot in one of the attacks. Fighting broke out after suspected Fulani herdsmen made their cattle to drink from the community stream and polluted the water. A native, who allegedly challenged the proprietary of the action of the herdsmen, was said to have been shot dead in the ensuing altercation. The killing sparked crisis and made the community members to mobilise for reprisal. However, in an attempt by policemen to apprehend some of the perpetrators, herdsmen, who had laid ambush, opened fire on the security agents, killing one of the civilians accompanying the policemen. The slain civilian was identified as Kabiru Ogunrinde while the DCO and inspector were injured by the assailants. A resident, who spoke with our correspondent on the phone yesterday, said six persons had so far been killed from both sides. Reacting, a House of Representatives member-elect, Olaifa Jimoh Aremu, representing Egbado North/ Imeko-Afon Federal Constituency, condemned the killings. Aremu enjoined the law enforcement agents to restore peace and tranquillity in the ancient town and the entire Imeko-Afon Local Government. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the clash but said only one death had been ascertained by the police command. He said the Police Commissioner, Makama, had visited the scene and investigation commenced to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident. The PPRO, however, blamed the incident on migrant herdsmen from neighbouring countries, who invaded the community and subsequently escaped after wreaking havoc. Oyeyemi, who stated that no arrest had been made yet, said the injured policemen were recuperating in the hospital. He said: “The CP was there today (Thursday) with the police management team and we have stationed our men in the town, including men from PMF, SARS, Anti-kidnapping and other tactical squads. “The CP has addressed all the stakeholders, including the Fulani community and natives of Iwoye community and the traditional rulers. He has warned them to live in peace and whoever foments trouble will have himself to blame. “We know of one casualty now, we even saw the corpse. Though we heard rumour that from the other side of the stream which is in Benin Republic, some people were actually attacked there. The CP also met with the commissioner of police from Benin Republic at the border and they had a joint meeting and they are going to set up a joint committee to prevent future occurrences.” Four persons have been killed as suspected herdsmen and farmers clashed in Iwoye area of Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State. The incident, which has ignited tension in the agrarian community, also left some police officers seriously injured. To douse tension and restore normalcy, the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama,… In “News” The Nigerian Army said on Thursday that they have arrested 17 people in connection with the killing of at least 100 people in the central state of Plateau. Army Spokesman, Major Adam Umar said three of the arrests were linked to killings in the Barikin Ladi area, while the other… In “News Around Nigeria” At least three people were yesterday reportedly killed following a fresh attack on Tiv farmers at Tse Igba Uke village near Ikpayongo, a suburb of Makurdi township by armed Fulani herdsmen, who invaded the community. The attack, which took place in broad day light, sparked protests by irate youths, who… In “News”