Vigilantes and youths of Benin Technical College (BTC) community yesterday foiled an attempt by suspected kidnappers to abduct the pastor of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) in charge of Ologbosere Parish. The incident occurred in Egor Local Government Area of Edo State. The vigilantes and youths of the community, with the support of worshippers, apprehended three suspects as early as 8a.m. on Sunday. The suspects specialised in robbing residents and worshippers on their way to and from church. The BTC community, which has become target of bandits, hosts several churches, such as the Ugbowo Branch of the Living Faith Church popularly known as Winners Chapel, the Church of God Mission International, Holy Rosary Catholic Church and Mountain of Fire and Miracle (MFM), Midwest II Region, Uselu. Luck ran out of the three-man gang, which dispossessed worshippers of their money, phones and other valuables, including cars, when they snatched a Toyota Camry car from another church and while trying to escape. They were chased by youths and vigilantes and some worshippers. The RCCG pastor was rescued by youths and vigilantes, after giving the abductors a hot chase. It was learnt that the hoodlums abandoned the snatched Camry car behind the Church of God Mission International (CGMI) and proceeded to the RCCG at Ologbosere Street where they abducted the cleric, identified simply as Pastor Ayo, and whisked him away in his Nissan Xtera SUV with registration number, Lagos EKY353 CA. The vigilante group leader who pleaded anonymity said it took the timely intervention of the community youths, worshippers who chased the hoodlums until they abandon the pastor’s vehicle and the pastor. The youth and the vigilantes said items recovered from the suspects included two double barrelled cut-tosize guns, a Camry car and Nissan SUV belonging to the RCCG pastor. The leader of the vigilantes said the hoodlums who had been terrorising the community were notorious for snatching cars at various churches during church service. At press time, identities of the suspects could not be ascertained as the Okhoro Divisional Police Station had taken the suspects to state police headquarters. Efforts to reach the RCCG pastor were unsuccessful as he was said to be receiving medical attention at an undisclosed hospital following injuries he sustained during the kidnap attempt. The intervention of the state Police Commissioner, DanMallam Mohammed, saved the suspects from being lynched by angry youths.