Four members of peace committee set up by Ebonyi state and  Benue state  governments to end  the age-long boundary dispute between the people of Ngbo, Ohaukwu local government area of Ebonyi state and their neighbouring Agila, Ardo local government area of Benue state which has claimed many lives with properties worth billions of naira destroyed, were beheaded by warlords. Last week, Deputy  Governor of Benue State, Chief Benson Abonu and his Ebonyi counterpart, Dr.  Kelechi Igwe held meeting at Government House Abakaliki and inaugurated three committees; Intercommunity peace committee, Ohaukwu/Ado Inter-Local Governments Peace Committee and a Technical Committee with members drawn from National Boundary Commission, Office of Surveyor General of the Federation and Surveyors Generals of Ebonyi and Benue states to end killings, maiming and
destructions in the crisis. But yesterday, four members of the peace committees who are indigenes of Ngbo, Ohaukwu local government area of Ebonyi state, were beheaded with two injured. They were ambushed and killed by warlords on their way to a meeting in Benue state over the crisis. Governor Dave Umahi who was visibly angry summoned stakeholders meeting of the area Briefing the Governor at Exco chambers government House Abakaliki where the meeting was held, Chairman of the local government, Hon. Clement Odah said the killings occurred barely one week after the Deputy Governor of Benue state and his contingent including Chairman of Ardo local government in the state visited the state(Ebonyi) and inaugurated three committees to find a lasting solution to the killings. “Each time we meet and agree that peace should reign, the Agila people will always breach that peace. This one is one of the cases of those cases of breaches and the effect is that it has left in our place, a large number of IDPs”, he said. Governor  Umahi while expressing his anger on the killings, said it was not ordinary and accused the stakeholders of aiding and abating the crisis. I am not a fool, these things are done by you people. There is no other person that did it, it is like you give somebody salt, you give him water. How can you say that these people killed were ambushed?. I have asked them to audit all your resources that are from Ohaukwu local government”, he said. Umahi ordered police and DSS to arrest stakeholders from the area including the council chairman, Odah and interrogate them over the crisis and that those arrested will be going to police and DSS every day over the matter after their bail.