The Zonal Commander Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Assistant Corps Mashall Imok Etuk has warned motorists to stop giving bribes to men and officer of the Corps. He gave the warning yesterday in an interview with newsmen when he paid a familiarisation visit to the Bauchi Sector Command of the FRSC. Mr Etuk said the warning became necessary because it corrupts the men of the Corps and portrays the FRSC in bad light. “I charged them to be more visible on the highway, to eschew all forms of corruption and to ensure that issues of overloading are nipped in the bud. Just yesterday (Tuesday), the Vice President (Yemi Osinbajo) said nobody should give bribe to FRSC, to Police and so on. “According to him, “Am also saying that don’t bribe our men, do the needful. You don’t need to be bribing our people, do the needful and you’ll not run foul of the law. It is when you are deficient that you’ll want to use money. The Assistant Corps Mashall emphasis that, “Don’t use money to do anything because the anti-corruption squad of the Corps will go out to ensure that these things are properly monitored. I am warning them to obey the traffic rules rather than using money especially during this Ramadan.” Commenting on the Bauchi-Jos and  Bauchi-Gombe roads that have become death traps with accidents occurring almost on a daily basis, he said he has charged the officers and men of the State sector Command that “the crashes on these roads and everywhere in the zone must be reduced to the barest minimum.” On the May 29th handing over, he said the three Sector Commands in the Zone have put up a strategic traffic control adding that the Special Marshalls will do route lining to ensure that the issue of congestion in the city is nipped in the bud. Etuk assured that the men of the Command will patrol across the state capital during the handing over ceremony “and we have told them to be fair, firm and friendly because we will have visitors that will want to see the new Governor. So, we are adequately prepared for a seamless transition.” He told Journalists that he directed all the Sector Commands to intensify public awareness to places of worship, traditional rulers, the motor parks and all public places. “Especially during this Ramadan, they must tell drivers to rest more at this period. They should tell them every four hours, they are supposed to rest for 15 mins according to the NRTR.” He said that while heading the zone, he would ensure the discipline of Officers and Men of the Corps across the three states under him, the feasibility of the Corps and high profile public enlightenment in Churches and Mosques “if these three things are done, the corporate strategic objectives will be achieved.” On the speed limiting device he said that the FRSC achieved 50% compliance in 2018 and this year, that will be raised promising to ensure that commercial drivers in the zone comply.