To deepen Nigerian content development initiative, Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical has awarded $368 million worth of contract to 120 local contractors. Group Executive Director, Strategy, Portfolio Development and Capital Projects, Dangote Industries Limited, Mr. Devakumar Edwin, made the disclosure yesterday in Lagos at the tour of the Dangote Refinery by members of Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) and Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR). Edwin said there are several Nigerian content opportunities in the company’s refinery and petrochemical project. He noted that the refinery would lead to significant skills transfer and technology acquisition opportunities in the country. According to him, the company is already partnering with the Lagos State government and Siemens in the skills development of the local community for employment at the construction site. “We have already trained and employed 250 artisans,” he added. He disclosed the company’s intention to train 900 Nigerian engineers in India. “The company has completed the overseas training of first and second batches of Nigerian engineers and are being acclimatized at site. The third batch left for India classroom training for one month, on the job training for one year and working in real time with experts in the industry every day,” he added. He said that the company has so far employed 3,580 Nigerian personnel on site. “This excludes employment by the various contractors and subcontractors at the site,” he said. Edwin stated that the company, in partnership with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), kickedoff training for 200 youths in its host communities, as part of its corporate social responsibility initiative. The programme, he said, is meant to prepare the selected youths with vocational skills that will make them employable or self-employed. According to the company, the youth are currently being trained in plumbing, masonry, welding, iron bending, auto mechanics and electrical works because of the instant value addition to their lives and communities. He said that the Dangote Petroleum Refinery can meet 100 per cent of the Nigerian requirement of all liquid products, such as gasoline, diesel, kerosene and aviation jet, and would also have surplus of each of these products for export. President of NIPR, Mukhtar Zubairu Sirajo, commended the President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, for his investment in Nigeria’s petroleum sector. Chairman, NUJ Lagos State Council, Dr. Qasim Akinreti, thanked the company for giving the union opportunity to embark on the tour of the refinery project.