The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has opened 2019 Direct Sale of Crude Oil and Direct Purchase (DSDP) to its local and international business partners, and potential offtakers and suppliers. Already, 132 firms have opened bids for the 2019 term-contract for lifting crude oil and petroleum products under the DSDP scheme. The companies are bidding for about 14 billion litres of products under the DSDP scheme. Group Managing Director of NNPC, Dr Maikanti Baru, who set the process in motion yesterday, said the essence of the bidding was to engage reputable and qualified companies and ensure that selection of off-takers was carried out in a transparent and accountable manner in compliance with the Public Procurement and Nigerian Content Acts. The GMD noted that the ultimate aim of the scheme was to ensure value optimisation to the federation. The Federal Government has recovered $2.2 billion through the DSDP scheme, also known as crudes swap, since its inception in 2016. Baru noted that the scheme has, over the years, ensured significant reduction in product demurrage cost in the range of 84 per cent and cost savings of about $2.2 billion. Baru, according to a statement by the corporation, said that 29.5 million metric tons or 39.6 billion litres of petroleum products had been supplied under the scheme, representing 90 per cent of the nation’s requirements. Highlighting other benefits of the scheme, Baru, in a statement issued by the NNPC spokesman, Ndu Ughamadu, stated competitive pricing framework, which is lower than the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency’s (PPPRA) benchmark, which led to about 84 per cent reduction in products demurrage cost. “The public bid opening exercise was in keeping with President Muhammadu Buhari’s transparency and anti-corruption stance, which the corporation had imbibed and championed relentlessly. “The DSDP scheme was introduced in 2016 with efficient and cost effective systems and processes to plug the value eroding loopholes of the January 2015 OPC contracts. “Since the inception of the DSDP scheme in 2016 until March 2019, about 29.5 million metric tons (39.6 billion liters) of petroleum products have been supplied under the scheme, representing over 90 per cent of the national requirement. “Through a transparent competitive bidding and evaluation process, the scheme has enlisted a robust supplier mix comprising of the big interna tional players and strong Nigerian downstream companies for supply flexibility and local capacity development,” Baru said. Officials of Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), Bureau of Public Procurement and other Non-Governmental Oganisations (NGOs) witnessed the bid round. Meanwhile, Nigeria inched closer to its target of bridging projected shortfall in domestic gas supply with the inauguration of the Asa North/Ohaji South (ANOH) Gas Processing Company, a partnership between the NNPC and Seplat Petroleum Nigeria Limited, expected to deliver 300 millon standard cubic of gas per day to the domestic market. The project, an integral part of the 7 Critical Gas Development Project (7CGDP) of the NNPC, is designed to abridge the estimated 3.4 billion cubic feet of gas per day shortfall, which could arise as demand increases to about 7 bcf/d by 2020. At the inauguration, Baru urged board members to sustain the momentum and ensure timely delivery of the project, not just within budget, but also below the budget without compromising the industry best practices of zero incidences. “We believe that a private sector driven project should deliver much faster, hence we came up with a structure outside the existing Joint Venture with the intent of getting the appropriate entities to participate in the project,” he said. He emphasized that NNPC was fully committed to the initiative and would do whatever possible to keep the dream alive and ensure smooth delivery of the project. Speaking on behalf of Board members, Chairman of the Board, Engr. Saidu Mohammed, who also doubles as NNPC Chief Operating Officer, Gas & Power, affirmed the determination of the company’s directors to work assiduously with management to ensure attainment of set tasks and targets. Mohammed described the inauguration as history in the making, noting that this was the first time a midstream company had been unbundled to run on its own from a JV operation. He expressed confidence that board members would ensure full activation of the shareholders agreement and grow the company to enviable heights in line with agreed timelines. On his part, Engr. Austin Avuru, Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Seplat Petroleum, described the event as memorable for the indigenous firm. He noted that under the watch of the NNPC GMD, Seplat and the corporation had made progress in terms of cementing a partnership that is non-acrimonious, saying that Baru had moved that level of support to the current venture. The AGPC functions as a partnership between Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), a subsidiary of the NNPC, and Seplat Petroleum under a 50-50-equity structure. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), last week, inaugurated eight committees for refineries’ rehababilitation. ADEOLA YUSUF looks at the hurdles ahead of the plan to end 330,000 barrels of crude swap for petrol daily.   The Federal Government, last Wednesday, unveiled a 2019 target to circuitously end the swap of… In “Energy” Nigeria has rolled over its crude for oil products swaps contracts by six months until the end of the year, the head of the country’s NNPC oil company told Reuters on Thursday.   The contracts, dubbed direct sale, direct purchase agreements (DSDP), were due to expire at the end of… In “Business” Cloud of uncertainty is hovering over the $60 billion dollars Direct Sale Direct Purchase (DSDP) oil contracts for 2017/2018 terms between the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and refiners abroad, New Telegraph has learnt. The deal, which has turned to the main subject of discussion in the country’s oil… In “Business”