  Thought Pyramid Arts Centre is a leading Nigerian art gallery. Therefore, it was not surprising that it was a major participant from Nigeria in the just concluded Art Expo New York, United States of America, which was held from April 4 to 7, 2019.  The gallery showcased seven Nigerian contemporary artists in the fair, and as the only Nigeria art gallery in the show, its booth was a rallying point for other individual artists and groups from Nigeria in attendance.  The Artexpo, New York was founded in 1978. Since then it has become an annual Mecca of sort for global art and it has become what many believe is the largest international gathering of artists, gallery owners, art dealers, architects, corporate art buyers and art enthusiasts in the last 41 years. In recent years, attendance at the fair has topped 35,000, with hundreds of galleries, artists and art enthusiasts from different parts of the world in active participation.  The importance of the Art Expo for participants is that it is a place of exchange where many come to search for ideas, art and artists that will shape trends in the arts worldwide. So, it  is a veritable platform for artists to launch themselves internationally and for the galleries, a channel to key into global trends. This can be seen in the many prominent artists from across the world, such as Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, Keith Haring and many others who have exhibited at one time or the other in the expo. The seven artists who were exhibited by Thought Pyramid Arts Centre are, Obinna Makata, Ola Balogun, Tony Nsofor, NosaUwagboe, Chike Obeagu, Akachukwu Chukwuemeka and Stacey Okaparavero. According to Jeff Ajueshi, the Artistic director of the art gallery, “our participation in this year’s artexpo, New York, is in furtherance of our international aspiration. I believe that we are already rooted locally in Nigeria’s boisterous art ecosystem, where we are doing a lot with the artists,” but Ajueshi says that as part of the gallery’s international strategy, it is important to connect with international artistic trends, and to explore the exposures that one can gain there, especially with the realisation that the art world is shrinking into a true globalism. “Our international overture is good for us as an institution just as it is good for the professional artists that we represent. It is in alignment with the vision and mission of Thought Pyramid Arts Centre, which is to promote artists, collect and preserve artworks and engage in the advancement of modern and contemporary art of Africa, while situating its activities within the context of global art movement.” Thought pyramid Arts centre was first established in Abuja in 2007. Ten years later, the gallery has established its second art space in Lagos, Nigeria’s culture capital. In addition, “a new facility for Artists and Writers Residency, which will complement our art galleries in Abuja and Lagos, known as Foundation for Arts and Creative Talents, will soon take off in Oghara, Delta state. With the advantage of its structures, Thought Pyramid is making serious contributions towards the growth and development of Nigeria’s art, locally. In its Abuja and Lagos branches, it pioneered Mentoring Moments, which is an interactive session that comes after exhibitions featuring renowned Nigerian artists. Mentoring Moments provide opportunities for the experienced artists to share professional experiences gained from years of practice with upcoming artists and art enthusiast. Enekwachi is an Abuja based curator and culture writer