Nigeria surely has a long way to go. And with the present leadership that lacks creativity, innovation and skills, the way has become longer. Nigeria is in pains. It is suffering the pains and pangs of poor leadership. The leadership poverty of the country has gotten to a crescendo, leaving Nigerians in dire straits and unimaginable consequences. The government has become apparently rudderless and confused, relapsing into prayer to solve what deserves an urgent practical intervention. The polarisation across the land is too palpable. The government has become disconnected from the people. The narratives have assumed North versus South dimension, and tending towards the biblical cliché “to your tent O’ Israel. The North and its huge population of almajiris and street urchins have now become a tinderbox, some kind of explosives waiting to explode. The Northern leaders have chosen the path of conspiratorial silence because of the menacing force of the almajiris who have now become armed bandits, kidnappers and dare-devil armed robbers. When a country’s moral fibre is anchored on hypocrisy and nepotism, what you get on the menu list are a combination of self-righteous indignation that makes one permanently blind to the real issues. It is not in doubt that this government is one driven by nepotism, oiled by cronyism, fuelled by favouritism and electrified by selective amnesia. The president loves to be praise-worshipped like one Egyptian god, looking unperturbed by the helpless voices of the masses who have grown to become skeletons in their country of plenty; a replay of Bob Marley’s lyrical note: “in the abundance of water, the fool is thirsty”. Unlike Bob Marley’s lyrics, the people are no fools save that they have been conquered and subjugated by government’s high-handedness and dictatorial tendencies. They have become slaves who have no choice to determine the oscillation of their fate. They wake up hopeless. They go to bed hopeless. They wake up hungry. They sleep with hunger. They roam around the streets looking for where the next culinary aroma would filter through their sense of smell. They assemble around there waiting for leftovers, and in a jiffy, you see them scavenging for leftovers, with flu dripping down their nostrils, their unclad bodies looking spent and uncatered for. Most of them are without clothes. A lot more without education, not even elementary formal education. The picture of an average Nigerian youth from the North is one that evokes pity, nostalgia and total abandonment. With votes doctored from the Northern axis to return a clueless President, their salvation seems forlorn. They now feel the pangs of neglect, and they have started reacting in a most criminal manner, through kidnapping and armed banditry. They have seized the highways, taken over our farmlands, arrested our barns, and have continued to unleash mayhem on us without the slightest remorse. They look at us with scorn and scary eyes, as if to slaughter us as a form of revenge for abandoning them for so long. Youths from the Northern part of Nigeria have become endangered species already exploding and keeping our highways under their wrap. The Southern part of the country is also sharing from these criminalities, kidnapping, ritual killings and armed robbery. Just take a count: Kaduna-Abuja highway has become headquarters of kidnapping. Benin-Ore highway, at Ofosu end of it, has become a hot spot for kidnapping. Birnin-Gwari-Kaduna highway has become almost a no-go area. Sokoto-Gusau road is taken over by armed bandits. Katsina, the home-state of Mr. President, has reportedly been under siege. Eight local governments have fallen under the control of armed bandits and terrorists. Daura, where the president claimed to come from, has also witnessed a kidnapping. Ebonyi State is also not spared. Delta State has its own share of kidnapping and other crimes. Between Akungba-Akoko and Owo, thank your God if you escape being kidnapped on that lonely road that has become kidnapper’s den. Dr. Onukaba Adinoyi-Ojo, that cerebral journalist, essayist, writer and author was mauled down in cold blood travelling on that road. Kaduna State as a whole, under the “body bag” Governor, has become a theatre of killings and mass burial. Taraba State is permanently in the news for the wrong reasons, let alone the North-East that has become synonymous with Boko Haram. The entire country is in turmoil and crimes are growing by the day. What is government’s response to the avalanche of internal insecurities? It is proposing to hand over a whooping N100 billion to the Miyetti Allah Association as part of its effort to curtail these unwholesome acts. N100 billion naira? Yes! That is what President Bubari has reportedly promised to pay the herdsmen through their association, the Miyetti Allah Association, in a meeting held in Kebbi State last week. It is like paying reparations for rustled cows, and abandoning the families that have been victims of these herdsmen onslaught. It is a payoff, to literarily plead with the herdsmen to sheathe their swords and allow peace to reign. When over 100 persons were murdered in cold blood in their sleep last year in Plateau, government spokesmen blamed politicians for “sponsoring” the killings and being masterminds of crimes. Not one member of Miyetti Allah has been arrested till date. At least, not one that I am aware of. Now, as if to rub first grade insult to our collective injuries, government is planning to empower our oppressors with such humongous sum. In fact, there are two set of countries in Nigeria. While the Federal Government is finetuning arrangements to ensure the payment of N100 billion, citizen Ochefu Emmanuel, a Lance Corporal in the Nigeria Army, who has reportedly fought like a gallant soldier in Boko Haram conclave of the North-East, to keep Nigeria safe, is languishing in the hospital for kidney failure. I saw a sorry picture of Ochefu Emmanuel on African Independent Television (AIT) yesterday, Monday, 6th April, begging Nigerians for help to enable him carry out kidney transplant in India. He needs N8.4 million. What a national shame. This is a Nigerian citizen who was ready to sacrifice his life so that we all can remain safe. He puts his life on the line in warfront to ensure that we are not overwhelmed by insurgents. Rather than sponsor this young promising Nigerian to seek medical help elsewhere, the Nigerian Army was busy issuing statement threatening to deal with the Non-Governmental Organisation for daring to expose this inhuman treatment, yet government is planning to settle Miyetti Allah Association with such bogus fund of N100 billion. Wonders shall never end in Nigeria. As if to compound the issue, the Nigerian Army said it has assisted in carrying out 20 dialysis for N50,000 adding up to a mere N1 million. What a shame. Probe into the accounts of those potbellied Army Generals, you will find billions of ill-gotten naira and dollars. Ask them to account for all the budgets and released funds, you will see them stammer. This is the Nigerian story. A story that often looks untrue but manifestly a reflection of what we are and who we truly are. The case of citizen Ochefu Emmanuel presents the irony that dominates our public discourse in Nigeria. A country of so many ironies cannot ignite any passion in the minds of the citizenry. A country of many contradictions and hypocrisies. I remember my encounter with an American soldier in June 2004 when I went for a sixweek course on anti-corruption and good governance sponsored by the USAID. We stayed at Marriotte Hotel in Washington DC overlooking the Pentagon. Each day we raced down to the restaurant to have breakfast, we saw a huge population of Americans who were also staying at the hotel. The manner of their friendly banters aroused curiosity in me. I had to engage one of them who later told me that they all belonged to the armed forces and were just returning from Iraq where they had participated in the war. Their mission at the hotel was to demobilise and become “human” again having been faced with shootings and killings. That was a four-star hotel. A four-star treatment for soldiers who have been called out on national duty. And they were expected to stay in that hotel for three months in order to fully integrate them into the American society. Citizen Ochefu is just like those American soldiers in terms of national service, but the difference in terms of welfare and care is huge. While the Nigerian Army sees the N1 million already expended as huge, and seeing Lance Corporal Ochefu’s case as almost irredeemable, they might have chosen to watch him die slowly. There are so many Ochefus in the security agencies in the country. There are so many soldiers who have died in warfront without appropriate care rendered to their families. Ditto for policemen who also die in their line of duty, and their families left to face their own destinies. It is a Nigerian disease not occasioned by lack of funds, but mostly promoted by the slavish doctrine of “obey before complain”. An American soldier has the right to question his superior on any given directive if in his estimation, it will not be in the interest of the country. His oath of allegiance is to the American Constitution and not to one big officer out there who loves “Isi-ewu” and “Nkwobi”, when the boys are doing justice to insecurity in the field. Nigeria Armed Forces need to change their orientation from this command structure and allow a little bit of democratic engagement in getting the job done. Citizen Ochefu must not die. He deserves to live. And the Nigerian Army should do the needful to save his life and save itself from national embarrassment. Stop the N100 billion planned gift to Miyetti Allah Association before you plunge this country into another avoidable crisis.