 Investigations have revealed that the governor of Adamawa State, Senator Jibrilla Bindow, lost his second term governorship election bid because of the hyper interest he showed to become Vice President to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo when President Muhammadu Buhari was gravely ill two years ago. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Adamawa State, who craved anonymity, alleged that the governor personally wrote a letter to Yemi Osinbajo, asking him to consider him for the Vice President position should the party drop President Buhari because of his ill health. Bindow, who lost the Adamawa State governorship election to the candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Hon. Umaru Fintiri, is one of the few APC governors who failed secure re-election.
Another APC governor that lost his second term bid is the governor of Bauchi State, Alhaji Mohammed Abubakar. The APC source from Adamawa said he sighted the letter written by the Bindow to Osinbajo seeking to be chosen as Vice President, saying: “I saw the letter the governor wrote to the Vice President.” Bindow was not the only governor who wanted to be picked by Vice President if he had succeeded Buhari as President when he was receiving treatment for a yet to be disclose illness in a London hospital for months in 2017. Other governors who wanted to become Vice President under Osinbajo were those of Borno State, Shettima Kashim; Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai; Katsina State, Alhaji Aminu Masari and Sokoto State, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal.
The Sokoto State governor was a member of the APC until 2018 when he defected to the opposition PDP. Buhari had alluded to the fact that some persons wanted to take his place, when he said that some persons wanted him dead while he was ill. The source speaking said that Buhari’s wife, Aisha, was irked by Bindow’s desire to become Vice President when her husband (Buhari) was on his sick bed.  According to him, that was why the President’s wife moved against him (Bindow) by sponsoring her brother, Dr. Mahmoud Halilu to replace the governor. But when her brother could not secure the governorship ticket of APC in Adamawa State, she decided to assemble APC stakeholders in the state to work against Bindow’s re-election.  The Adamawa APC stakeholders that were allegedly co-opted include: former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu; former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Engr. Lawal Babachir; former Lagos State Military Administrator, Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd) and the Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello. The only prominent APC stakeholder that worked for Bindow’s re-election was the current Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha.  The political affiliation of the SGF to the Adamawa State governor has also pitched him against the wife of the President, as it is being alleged that the President’s wife wants the SGF to be replaced with Gen. Buba Marwa (rtd).
In June of 2016, President Muhammadu Buhari made his first announced medical trip to United Kingdom to treat an ear infection.  President Buhari then spent roughly 150 days in 2017 on another “medical leave” in a UK hospital without the Presidency giving the nation any cogent reasons for his prolonged absence prompting protests by a number of groups both in Nigeria and at the nation’s High Commission in the UK demanding for answers.  Buhari’s prolonged absence two years ago prompted subtle agitations by some party chieftains that the party should declare his position vacant and replace him with Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. But the then National Working Committee (NWC), led by Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, had resisted the temptation and stood by President Buhari to the extent that the statutory meetings of the party were automatically suspended indefinitely. However, all attempts made to have the Adamawa State Governor, Bindow or his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Macauley Hunohashi to react to the allegations were not fruitful as they neither answered their calls nor responded to the text messages sent to them.  Meanwhile, President Buhari is expected back in the country today after spending a 10-day “private visit” to the UK.  