It was mild drama yesterday at the Ibeku High School playground, venue of the Labour Day celebration when pensioners in Abia State disrupted the march past. No sooner had the Head of Service and representative of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, Sir Onyi Wama, mounted the podium to take the May Day salute than the pensioners, in total disregard to the order of the march, came from the opposite direction with banners announcing their woes.
One of the banners read, “Pensioners, it is a taboo to be in Abia State.” The pensioners, clad in black attire, refused to march past, but remained at the center stage to drive home their massage. The labour leaders and government officials ran helter-skelter to douse the tension and embarrassment caused by the action of the pensioners but to no avail. The action forced the Head of Service down from the podium until normalcy was restored. However, after about 20 minutes, the pensioners, numbering over 50, some of whom lay on the ground, were persuaded to withdraw.
The pensioners, according to the chairman of NUP, Chukwuma Udensi, are owed 28 months arrears. He explained that the immediate past government owed them nine months while the present government owes 19 months arrears. But chairman of the state NLC, Comrade Uchenna Obigwe, had said in his speech that the pensioners were owed between 19 and 25 months.
Obigwe lamented that “the issue of salary arrears are growing in a higher dimension which is not in the best interest of the service.” The NLC chairman gave the list of institutions and their months of arrears as follows: Abia State University Teaching Hospital (ABSUTH), Aba, 12 months’ salary arrears; Health Management Board (HMB), nine months; Secondary School Teachers, 10 months; Abia Polytechnic, 13 months; College of Education Technical, Arochukwu, 15 months; ASUBEB, six months; LG workers, two and a half months; Abia College of Health Sciences, 13 months. He observed that “instead of the salary arrears to be reducing from one year to another, it has been increasing, meaning that the state government or the managers of the financial resources of the state are not doing well.”
He also drew the attention of government to the evil of non-payment of gratuities and withholding of promotion arrears of workers. In his address, Mr. Sunny Onwuma, Abia Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC), said that delayed salary payment had made most civil servants to fail in their family responsibilities. Onwuma said that most Abia civil servants were afraid to retire, adding that those due for retirement either amended their service records or applied for extension “for fear of the unknown.”
In his speech, Governor Ikpeazu assured the workers that issues of their welfare would continue to be in the front burner, adding that the new minimum wage would be paid.
He promised to work with the labour leaders to end the issues bothering the workers.
The governor promised not to adopt the “Abia formula” in the payment.