The former minister of the defunct Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Prince Adetokunbo Kayode (SAN), during the administration of former President Umaru Musa Yar ‘Adua, and now president, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, spoke on the need to develop and promote Nigeria tourism, at the recently held International Hospitality, Tourism and Eco-Sustainability Forum (IHTEF) in Abuja   It is a delight for me to be in the midst of major players in the hospitality sector to discuss matters that have the possibility of positively impacting on the entire sector across its value chain.
This sector has made uncommon contributions towards the development of Nigeria’s economy and that has underscore the reason while today we will be discussing the new trends and dimensions that will make for optional utilisation of the abundant potential for the hospitality industry not just for Nigeria but the entire Africa.
In India for instance, the growth of the service sector has been largely due to tourists visiting different destinations. Restaurants, trade and repair services stand third as sub segments of the service sector in India. This sub segments contributed 12.5%; that is 187.9 billion dollars to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2014/15. It is also possible to do same in Nigeria.
It is on record and the organisers have aptly captured the essence of this gathering by re-emphasising that the United Nations have severally underscore the need for a renewed commitment towards hospitality and tourism via innovation, technology, workforce excellence (development) and inter-Africa trade.
This is no doubt the secret behind the projection by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) that Africa is set to become the world’s fastest aviation growing market in the next 20 years. Direct efforts towards massive investment
The theme of today’s section, which is tagged: ‘Beyond 2020: Innovation, Service and Growth,’ offers a unique opportunity to influence positive growth in the industry, catalyse excellence and redirect our efforts towards massive investment, using innovative, proactive and inventive pathways to change the situation for the better.
It is estimated that this industry is one of the largest and fastest growing in the world. It is projected to create 328 million jobs and support 10% of the workforce of the world by 2022.
Nonetheless, according to a research conducted by Lagos – based W Hospitality Group recently, hotel general managers working across Nigeria amounting to about 85% were optimistic about their hotels performance due to renewed confidence in the Nigerian business environment, even as the environment has remained very challenging. Boom in hospitality is a boost for the economy
As critical players, we are all aware of the fact that a boom in the hospitality industry always serves as a harbinger of overall economic performance. This is because of the links it has with several other components of the larger society. Hospitality has grown over the years in scope and conceptualisation to include, but not limited to the provision of accommodations, venues, meals and drinks to people who are out of their homes. Challenges
One other key area relevant to sustainable tourism is its impact. This prompted the WTO to raise awareness on the contributions of sustainable tourism to develop among public and private sector decision makers and the international community, while mobilising all stakeholders to work together in making tourism a catalyst for positive change.
In light of this, it is pertinent to begin to interrogate the numerous gaps that seem to exist in the Nigerian tourism space, chief of which is the lack of a connection between the various stakeholders that should make sustainable tourism in Nigeria a huge success.
As we look ahead, let it be abundantly made clear that security issues, the oil price crash, and the recent recession have combined forces to somehow slow down many internal movements around the Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE).
To me, it is pertinent for all of us to get ourselves worried about two critical areas, viz: Training and the visa regime. On training, there are few hospitality training institutes and most of the staff in the sector are either not trained at all or poorly trained. Training institutes should be encourage while more private institutes are needed to provide sector specific skill set.
Talking about visa is another long story. But let me quickly add that tourism is driven by internal as well as external tourists. Internally, we still have challenges but the same challenges are compounded when we want to internationalise our destinations.
Critical to this is visa policy. Where other countries are making huge income through tourist visa which is often given on arrival, our case has remained different. Though the government lately introduced visa on arrival it is still poorly administered and discretionary. This has created another problem. The process should be improved upon to enable the teeming number of interested tourists choose Nigeria as a destination.
Again, multiple taxes and other levies charged by authorities have dealt another big blow on the sector which is ordinarily supposed to be regarded as a cash cow.
Without dwelling too much on the problems, tourism is believed to be the fastest growing industries across the world at an annual growth rate of 196 in countries like USA, Italy, France, Spain, UK, and Caribbean and of recent, African countries like Kenya, South Africa, Morocco, Tunisia, Gambia, and Egypt, earned substantially from it. Developing tourist attractions
Our case should not be different. We need to develop our destinations and tourist attractions. We need to expand our scope and add value to our attractions. More importantly, there must be favourable policies in place to drive innovation, quality service delivery and all – embracing growth. A call for united front
On this note, I call on all hands on to be on deck to successfully navigate us out of this quagmire.