  Esuk Mba community market in Akpabuyo Local Government Area of Cross River is still practising trade by barter as a means of exchange for food items since it was established in 1956.
The market, which is located in a remote village in Esuk Mba in Akpabuyo, is a weekly market that starts from 7a.m. and ends at noon every Saturday. Villagers, according to, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), usually move their consumable items to the market in exchange for the ones they are in need of.
This practice, it was learnt, has been in peaceful existence among members of the community on every market day since 1956. The community’s Youth Leader, Mr. Asuquo Effiong, who conducted NAN correspondent round the market, said the market which serves as a tourists site for most visitors, was in dire need of a facelift.
He said the practice was still in existence because the market was handed over to them by their forefathers. According to him, the market is also significant because it was also a point of activities during the period of the slave trade in the country.
He said: “We grew up to meet this market. We hold it so much in high esteem and we want to sustain it. We use it to remember our forefathers and to sustain our culture.
“As you can see, there are varieties of food items in this section for exchange. In this market, you can bring your palm oil and exchange it for garri, yam, fish or plantain as the case may be. “The market is close to the river side and our people here are predominantly fishermen. The community is not comfortable with the size of this market; there has been no expansion of the market since inception.
“In addition, we don’t have any good school here; no potable water and health post. We need government’s intervention in this community.’’ A market woman, Mrs. Eno Etim, who brought in yam in exchange for palm oil, said the tradition had been with them for ages.
Etim said she had no palm oil in her house hence she brought four tubers of yam to exchange for four litres of palm oil. Also, Mrs. Grace Okon, said she brought in periwinkle, popularly called ‘mfi’ in Calabar language in exchange for garri, adding that it had helped them over the years to save cost in view of the scarce financial resources.
It was observed that most of the roofs in the thatched houses inside the market have already fallen off, while the woods, which usually give the houses a standing position, were lying on the ground. A youth in the village, Mr. Cyril Asuquo, who conducted NAN correspondent through the slave trade route behind the market, up to the creeks where the slaves were transported through the sea to other countries, said the route was called a “Point of no Return”.
Asuquo explained that the bank of the creeks was called a “Point of no Return” because any slave, who got to that point never returned to the family. He said: “This route is the ‘Point of no Return’ as we heard from our forefathers; it used to be a slave ground. When they take you to this point as a slave, it means no mercy, no return.
“We lost our fathers, mothers and relatives that were taken through this point. But in all, we thank God that the practice of slave trade has been abolished.’’ Asuquo, who also showed NAN the thatched house that used to serve as a resting point for the slaves after a long distance trek, urged the state government to make the spot a tourist site.