FIXTURES Chelsea v Watford – 14:00 Huddersfield v Man Utd – 14:00 Arsenal v Brighton – 16:30 Tomorrow Man City v Leicester – 20:00     Very often fine lines determine the outcome of football matches and by extension whether a club or its manager has had a successful season or not. Thus the width of a post, preventing the ball from going in which could be the difference between victory or defeat; or even 29.51 millimetres as was the case of Sergio Aguero’s strike against Burnley last Sunday which only modern technology could have given and which meant that Manchester City once again took the destiny of winning the league from Liverpool and back in their own hands. Then there was substitute Pedro being on the line to head clear a definite goal-bound header from Marcos Rojo which would have most certainly given Manchester United all three points against Chelsea and pushed them closer to a possible top four finish. But Pedro’s goal line clearance meant the Blues left the Theatre of Dreams with a share of the points and their Champions League destiny in their own hands and United and their beleaguered manager, Ole Gunner Solskjaer now needing others to help them achieve their dreams of playing in next season’s elite European competition. After a shocking 4-0 defeat to Everton; followed up a few days later by another 2-0 loss to champions, City, the onus was on the Red Devils to get one over their Old Trafford boogie team if they were to cement their claims for a top four finish. But alas, just like they did against their cross city rivals on Wednesday night, after an impressive first half performance in which they matched City and even created chances, the Red Devils ran out of steam in the second half and allowed Chelsea back of course courtesy of another major clanger from the once very dependable David de Gea, who gifted Chelsea the equaliser. The result now means that even if United triumphs over already relegated Huddersfield Town once Chelsea matches them in their game against Watford then they will still be two points behind the Blues – of course unless Javi Gracia’s Hornets are able to do them a favour by stinging their hosts! Sadly this is the situation that the once dominant force of English football has now found herself in following their dramatic collapse since Ole was named full-time manager on March 28. Pre-March 28 United the form United displayed top torm that they were even on course to challenge Tottenham Hotspur for a third placed finish following 10 wins out of 13 in the Premier League and a comeback victory against Paris Saint-Germain in the Champions League. But those heady days are far long gone and the 13-time Premier League winners are scrambling to make the Champions League needing help from other clubs. However, if stats are anything to go by, then United fans should not put much hope in receiving a helping hand from the Hornets. When both teams met on Boxing Day, the Blues stunned the visiting side 2-1 at the Vicarage Road courtesy of a stunning performance from their Belgian superstar, Eden Hazard, whose brace took him past 100 goals for the Blues, becoming only the 10th player to reach that landmark. Speaking afterwards the delighted forward said: “To score 101 goals with this amazing club is something I will never forget, but now the fans, staff and players want more.” Hazard, who helped Chelsea win the Premier League title in 2015 and 2017, went on to add: “I want to score more for this club and then try to be a legend like Frank Lampard, Didier Drogba and John Terry.” Hazard, who joined Chelsea for £32million from Lille in June 2012, will love nothing more than to help the Blues end their Champions League wilderness by making it a double over Watford, especially as it is being touted that he may be leaving Stamford Bridge for the glamour of the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium, which is the home ground of fallen European champions, Real Madrid. Under the 48-year-old native of Pamplona, Spain, who took became Watford manager last year; the Hornets have been blowing hot and cold. Currently ninth, the Hornets have taken some notable scalps this campaign, including Crystal Palace, Leicester, Everton and Spurs. Last month they also caused a major upset when they came from behind to beat Wolves in the semi-finals of the world’s oldest knock out competition, the FA Cup to set up a final meeting later this month against Manchester City. Lest we forget, Wolves knocked out Liverpool and United from the competition. However, with Maurizio Sarri and his players knowing what is at stake it is highly unlikely that the Hornets will be able to add the Blues to the list of their scalps – leaving United fans to reflect on what they might have been had they won last weekend. A fact not lost on the Italian who said after the Old Trafford draw: “We need two wins. With this we are sure. “We are fighting for the top four and in semi-final of the Europa League. We have done a good season. Now we need to take two very important targets.” But beyond this, Solskjaer is facing a dilemma regarding whether he should still retain his goalkeeper in the remaining two games. The United boss had to defend De Gea before the Chelsea game because of the Spaniard’s shaky form, which has seen him making three errors leading to goals in his last four games in all competitions – as many as in his previous 123 matches combined for the Red Devils. He can call on Sergio Romero, but the Argentine has not made a Premier League appearance since May 13, 2018 when he kept a clean sheet in a 1-0 win against Watford. It remains to be seen whether he will be called into action before the end of the season next Sunday.   Incidentally, with Tottenham losing at home to West Ham on Saturday and Arsenal losing heavily at Leicester earlier on Sunday, the Chelsea draw meant none of the teams placed between third and sixth won last weekend. Five points separate Tottenham, Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester United with 180 minutes of the Premier League season remaining. But the man known as the “Baby Faced Assassin” during his United playing days is still harbouring hope of a miracle saying after the latest setback: “Points are being dropped left, right and centre in this race.” “If you look at the league table it’s going to be difficult for us. We’ve got to make sure we turn up, win the next two games, play well and you never know.” Sadly too many times since March 28 United players have failed to match their manager’s words with performances on the field which has left them in sixth slot on the table and their Champions League destiny no longer in their hands.
Coincidentally both games kick off at 2pm ostensibly to ensure that there is no hanky panky in the race to make the secure the lucrative Champions League ticket. In the final game today, fifth placed Arsenal, which still has a mathematical chance of snatching a Champions League ticket, is home to Brighton, a side desperately fighting for Premier League survival in 17th spot just a few points ahead of Cardiff, which is currently occupying the last relegation spot. This should make for a very feisty performance from the visiting side. Arsenal then end their campaign on the final day with a road game against Burnley which many Gunners’ fans will be wary of because of their side’s poor record on the road.