Hon, Magaji Dau Aliyu represents Birnin Kudu/Buji Federal Constituency of Jigawa State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and has been re-elected for a second term in the House of Representatives. The Director of Mobilisation, Femi Gbajabiamila Campaign Organisation and erstwhile Deputy Speakership aspirant, speaks with PHILIP NYAM on the race for leadership positions in the lower chamber  A few weeks ago, your name featured prominently amongst lawmakers eyeing the position of Deputy Speaker. Why did you suddenly withdraw from the race? If you read all my interviews correctly, I made mention of the fact that unless and of course if it is zoned to North-West, I will contest. But the party has zoned it to North-Central and that is where my ambition ended. So, as a loyal party man, I had to suspend my ambition and wait for another time, and I believe that another time will surely come.   Is it just blind loyalty or you are satisfied with the zoning arrangement put forward by your party?  I am and I am solidly behind the party; and that is why I am now the Director of Mobilization of the Femi Gbajabiamila campaign. I feel that I will not be here without the party. So I do not have any cause to question the decision of the party; because I did not question them when they were given me the ticket to contest. So, I am loyal to the president and the party 100 per cent.   There are some insinuations in the media and amongst many Nigerians that the candidature of Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila is being propelled by the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; and if Gbajabiamila becomes Speaker, he would be controlled from the leader’s bedroom. Don’t you think this is a minus to his campaign?  That is a very cheap blackmail and it is very unfortunate for people to be making this allegations. I have been in politics for a long time but I have never known Tinubu. I am sure if I pass before him, he will not even know me or my name, but I have a lot of respect for him. My prayer is that God will raise many more Tinubu’s in this country to inspire the younger ones, support them and be a source of wisdom.  You see in some advanced democracies, there would not have been any contest for the position of Speaker. Femi was the Minority Leader and he later became the Majority Leader and so it would have been automatic for him to become the Speaker. Why are they afraid of Femi? Femi is qualified, competent and detribalized and that is why we are campaigning for him. If you remember, in 2015, I was working for him to become Speaker, but we were sabotaged and success eluded us. But this time around, Insha Allah, we will get it right.   There are also complaints that the combination of Gbajabiamila and Wase, both Muslims seem to be blind to the secular nature of Nigeria – that there should have been a balance…  There is a balance and there is precedence. At least, in the Second Republic, I was old enough to know that when Senator Joseph Wayas was President of the Senate, Senator Wash Pam from Plateau was the Deputy Senate President. Again, when Senator David Mark was Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu was the Deputy. In the House, when Hon. Dimeji Bankole was Speaker, Hon. Bayero Nafada was the Deputy, yet they were all Muslims. This happened and nobody raised any eyebrows. But we are not here to promote our religion. We are not playing religious politics here and we have both Muslims and Christians working together for Gbajabiamila and Wase. We are happy with what we are doing and I believe we will win at the end of the day.   But the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has declared that no leadership position or committee chairmen would be given to opposition party lawmakers. Is this not destroying the parliament and indeed our democracy?  What did you want him to say? He did not say we in the House will not give the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or any other party anything. He is not in the parliament. He is talking as a national chairman of a party that won elections. Any party leader would have said that: even Uche Secondus, Chairman of the PDP would have said that. I believe Oshiomhole’s statements will not affect our chances negatively.   Are you saying that the National Chairman will not have any influence on the leadership of the House being controlled by his party?  Absolutely he (Oshiomhole) does; but remember he is a seasoned administrator; a seasoned politician, highly experienced and will not do anything that may be injurious to our democracy. I believe he did not meant any harm and people should not misinterpret what he meant.   Gbajabiamila was endorsed by the APC in 2015 but he lost to Dogara. Why is the party insistent on having Gbajabiamila as Speaker?  I am sure you know that it is God that gives power. Power belongs to God and God’s time is the best and I believe the time for Femi is now. I just told you that if it were in other climes, nobody would have contested against Femi for the position of Speaker. He was the Majority Leader and should have been given that privilege. Take for example the case of USA; Nancy Pelosi was the Majority Leader, and when her party won she became the Speaker of the House of Representatives.  Now, we were in leadership and our party won; is it not fair that the majority leader be given the chance to lead us? In fact, Femi is the most qualified for this position. It is not just that they mentioned his name or the party chose him. He is eminently qualified. I have not seen anybody in the House now including that is most competent and better qualified than Femi Gbajabiamila.   Are you not worried that your party, the APC would zone a position to a particular area and at the same time pick a specific individual to occupy the seat? Is this not infringing on the rights of members to freely choose their leaders?  The party comprises of people from different areas with different orientations and backgrounds. But what has happened in the case of our party endorsing Femi Gbajabiamila and Idris Wase as well as Senator Ahmed Lawan is a decision that was taken after extensive consultations. Everybody was consulted; so it is not Adams Oshiomhole’s decision; it is our party decision. I am personally happy with this decision.   I would like you to assess the leadership of Speaker Yakubu Dogara. He was not the party’s candidate but the lawmakers voted him. Would you say he has done well or not?  Yes, he has done well by my assessment.   Some people have argued that the APC is not fair to the South-South and South-East in her zoning arrangement. The President is from North-West, Vice President is from South-West and you want the Senate President for North-East and Speaker from South-West. What are you giving South-South and South-East?  Every geopolitical zone will be adequately catered for. You know everybody cannot be Speaker or Senate President. It has to be one person at a time. But I can assure you, the APC will not marginalised any section of this country. We are one Nigeria. But I urge Nigerians to wait for zoning for other positions to come out.