President Muhammadu Buhari may have come and returned to Aso Villa, but reactions have continued to trail the iconic projects commissioned by the president. Many said legacy projects executed by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode do not lot only change the Lagos landscape, but also changed the ugly narrative of the nation’s image. Muritala Ayinla reports  Although some of the projects were criticised in some quarters as waste of resources on projects that could have been conveniently executed by the federal government, undoubtedly, the Akinwunmi Ambode administration will be remembered for changing the ugly stories of Nigeria transportation experience with legacy projects, especially around the airport. For long, many had wondered why it was difficult for the successive federal government to consider the airport road project worthy of a face lift. Beyond the disappointments that travelers encounter right from the airport, the ugly travel experiences resulting from deplorable state of roads leading to the airport say so much about the nation’s leadership who had refused to replicate their experiences abroad at home. Consequently, many had missed their flights while many contracts had been lost in the past owing to the traffic gridlock caused by bad roads to the airport. Those in the authority hardly travel to the airport without the use of escorts to meander their way either by lawful or illegal means to circumvent traffic gridlock caused by terrible roads. Today, governor Ambode’s has just 27 days in office before he hands over to his successor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Lagos State Governor-elect but he will be leaving behind a legacy that will continue to make Nigerians at home and in the diaspora proud. His intervention on Ojodu Berger axis with six-legged bridge and slip roads will forever be appreciated, the lay-bys he introduced along Third Mainland Bridge will always excite motorists for many years to come. Road users at the secretariat along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway won’t also forget in a hurry, the administration that considered the safety of their lives and put an end to the pedestrians being knocked down while crossing on the highway.  Residents of Aboru, Ajasa Command, AIT Road and other neighbourhood of Lagos-Ogun border will forever appreciate that government that added values to their properties through opening up of their domain with network of well-lit roads. Motorists and other business owner will also be praying for sustenance of light up project that reduced crime rate and created night economy. But of all these interventions, none seemed to have direct and immediate impact on Nigerians home and abroad like the remodeled airport road, the airport road does not only make Nigerians proud but also serves as a big relief to diplomats and travellers who use Murtala Muhammed International Airport. Obviously worried by the continued trend of neglect of the strategic road that leads to Nigeria’s busiest international airport which is more or less the gateway to the country; Governor Ambode on June 2017 secured the approval of the Federal Government to redesign and expand the road and flagged off the construction work in September of same year. The transformation of the road leading directly to the international wing of MMIA is a clear evidence of how Ambode-led administration has changed the ignoble past and made the country proud. Prior to the intervention, a visitor doesn’t need to travel across the country to know the poor state of infrastructure in Nigeria. The sight of deplorable around the airport was enough to have a grasp of state of infrastructure in Nigeria. Despite being the entry route into Nigeria for international visitors and investors, successive government at the federal level seemed to be unperturbed with the obvious disturbing states of the roads. Hence, more and more air transport passengers using the road, get stuck in traffic congestion and miss their flights in the process. For several others, commercial motorcycle operators, popularly known as ‘Okada riders,’ had become the alternative. As shameful as it could look, most air passengers have to either leave home very early or succumb to okada if he or she must catch up with the flight. Today, with a ten-lane dual carriageway and a U-turn ramp bridge, transformation has taken around Nigeria’s busiest airport. The road is being constructed with a ramp bridge to provide a U-turn from Ajao Estate to the airport; the construction also has a flyover at NAHCO/tollgate and drainage works. There are also two new pedestrian bridges at Ajao Estate and NAHCO/Hajj Camp, as well as slip road to provide access to Ajao Estate, lay-bys and installation of street lights to meet required international standard. If airport road transformation is being applauded by Nigerians and diplomats, then Oshodi Transport Interchange is also described as iconic project that will stand the test of time, if the successive administration put it into good use.  According to Governor Ambode, the execution of the project has also totally brought about a turnaround transformation which will not only change the landscape of Oshodi environment but also create a new transportation experience similar to what obtains in the developed world. New Telegraph gathered that the $70 million project would bring about convergence of transportation, commerce and leisure . When completed, the project will have facilities such as International Bus Terminals, Shopping/Business Malls, Local Bus Interchange, Car Parks and other facilities that will add to a Modern City Lifestyle. The multi billion Naira project which comprise three world class terminals that will cater for the transportation need of over 1 million commuters and curb the indiscriminate parking by estimated 500 vehicles scattered in 20 parks in Oshodi. According to the Governor, “currently, Oshodi has over 200,000 passengers boarding per day, about one million pedestrians and that 76% of the area is dedicated to transport and related activities. The result of this was chaos, illegal markets, high human and vehicular traffic, environmental and sanitation issues and in recent times serious security challenges.” On what to expect in Oshodi few weeks time, the Managing Director of Planet Project, the indigenous construction firm, handing the project, Mr Abiodun Otunola said that the firm was poised to deliver an iconic projects to tell Nigerians and indeed the world that Nigerians can rebuild the nation. He said billions of Naira had been spent on projects handled by the foreign expatriates, who delivered lesser quality when compared to the global standard. Otunola, who said that the current transportation experience in the country, especially in Lagos contribute to short life span and low life expectancy among residents, added that with the new transport interchange, Lagosians will live longer. He said that a pedestrian bridge would have to be demolished for a more comprehensive one which will be longer and wider, adding that new bridge would connect pedestrians to various wings within Oshodi.  The civil engineer insisted that only competent indigenous Nigerians could build iconic structure that will stand the test of time as the firm was currently doing. “About 700 employed to carry out one service or the other here. We are all Nigerians and the Lagos economy is filling the impact of these iconic structures, we use about 400 trucks of sand daily for the massive work going on here. We are also going to create a tunnel where the bus will use before going to load the passengers. The walkways around will be between 5-7 metres while the pedestrian bridges will be extended. We are working to reduce the man and vehicle interference because that is what is currently going on in chaotic Oshodi. Nigerians deserve the best and only a Nigerian firm who believes in the Nigerian project can deliver on this. We travel abroad we saw what the whites are doing, why can’t we replicate that in our soil?” 