ONYEKACHI EZE reports on the performance of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general election, which seems a sign that the former ruling party has returned to its winning ways  Very few people, prior to July 2017 Supreme Court judgement on the leadership tussle of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), would believe that the party would retain half of the then 11 states under its control in the 2019 general elections. But, surprisingly, the party won 14 out of the 29 states, where the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) conducted governorship elections this year. Apart from Sokoto and Benue States, which joined PDP before the general elections, the party not only retained most of its states, but won four additional states from the ruling All progressives Congress (APC). Two of these states – Oyo and Imo – were under the control of APC government since 2007 and 2011 respectively, while Bauchi and Adamawa, which were lost in 2015, had been reclaimed. Even though the PDP lost Kwara and Gombe States, its outing in the general elections is, nevertheless, a sweet tunic. The party, before the July 2017 Supreme Court judgement, was a ghost of its former self. Notwithstanding its 16 years in power, the leadership crisis that lasted more than one year, caused a great havoc to its image and structure, both at the national and state levels. There were avalanche of defections from the party in most states. They include former governors and ex-legislators elected on the platform of the party. Some serving National and state Assembly members, equally jumped ship and joined the ruling party – APC. But a former National Chairman of the party, Alhaji Bamanga Tukur, likened the defectors to people beclouded by illusion. “Some people are jumping ship. It is just like those who want to go to Libya and from there to Europe and they take the barges because they have a promise of better future. It is not true. PDP is the party not just for the zone but it is global. PDP is not just a Nigerian party, it is a global entity. We will make sure that our party, right from the homes, inculcates in our members the responsibility and virtue of nationbuilding,” he said. The Wadata Plaza (the PDP National Secretariat), was under lock and key for over one year and was overgrown by weeds, while rodents took over most of the offices. The party blamed its travails on the ruling APC. Its former National Publicly Secretary, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, who is now a senator-elect on the platform of the APC, at a time, noted that one of the ways deviced by the APC to distract the PDP and to prevent it from mobilising to take power back in 2019 was to create crisis and to ensure a prolonged judicial tussle. The PDP was dogged by many court orders right from its first aborted National Convention in May 2016 in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Most of these orders were from courts of coordinate jurisdiction. Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a time, said the commission was served with six court orders within three months over the PDP leadership tussle. He added that during the crisis, both federal and state high court divisions were over each other in giving conflicting judgements. Some of these judgements include, Ali Modu Sheriff vs INEC delivered by the Federal High Court, Lagos on May 12, 2016; Chief Emeka Dibia vs PDP, delivered by FCT High Court on May 16 that same year; Chief Joseph Jero vs PDP, delivered on June 29, also at FCT High Court, among others. Despite the travails, some PDP leaders believed that the party would overcome its challenges and become strong enough to go into the 2019 general elections. Former President Goodluck Jonathan was among those who were then optimistic that the party would bounce back in 2019. “PDP is still the biggest and the strongest party irrespective of what happened in 2015 general elections. Yes, we lost the presidential election, but that doesn’t diminish us. Every other party still knows that PDP is a leading party. A turning point for the party however, was the conduct of its elective National Convention on December 9, 2017. Despite the number of aspirants to the chairmanship position and the fear that the party might implode thereafter, PDP was able to mitigate the post-convention backlash and came back stronger. Prince Uche Secondus, who emerged national chairman, promised to re-brand the party and bring it to winning ways. Immediately after the national convention, Secondus embarked on a rebuilding process, reaching out, not only to aggrieved members, but also to the party’s founding fathers, who appeared disillusioned over the management of its affairs. He told whoever cared to listen that he would make PDP a grassroots patty. His words then: “This is the time we must be ready to go down to the grassroots, to do away with the style of gathering in Abuja, because I believe that the campaign structure will be a smart and very effective one. The matter is not in Abuja. It is directly at the grassroots. “We are aware of what happened in 2015, where we gathered at Legacy House in Abuja (PDP presidential campaign office) for everyday meeting but there was no result. We reject that. It will never happen again.” Secondus did not stop at that. He accepted the party’s past mistakes and apologised to Nigerians. At a public function, he said PDP has acquired experience through its past challenges, adding: “We were sanctioned by Nigerians at the polls in 2015; let me use this opportunity to apologise for our past mistakes. “It is the honest thing to do, a legacy to transfer to our children; we cannot continue like that. When we make mistakes, we should come out boldly to the people and apologise. It is important to do so because we have learnt from our mistakes unlike the APC that will make mistakes and lie to cover it. “We apologise to Nigerians that we have made mistakes, we have learnt our lessons and we are ready to begin on a new agenda; experience is the best teacher, no other party has it.” This public apology won many support for the party. Even a former Deputy National Chairman (South) of the party, Chief Bode George, who contested for the national chairmanship position against Secondus, praised him for his managerial skill. The result of the repositioning was the return of former members to the party. President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and Speaker of House of Representatives, Dogora Yakubu, led some members of the party back to PDP. Thus, PDP took over the leadership of the National Assembly even as opposition party. Three governors – Samuel Ortom (Benue), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Abdulfatah Ahmed (Kwara), also left APC for the PDP, bringing the number of states under the party’s control to 14. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar returned to the party before the December 9, 2017 national convention. Another moment of concern was in choosing the PDP presidential candidate for the 2019 elections. Thirteen aspirants obtained the nomination forms, and none was ready to step down for another. They also rebuffed attempt at consensus candidature. The issue degenerated into a contest between returnees and old members. Again, it looked as if the party would implode. Even the venue for the convention to choose the candidate became contentious. Thus, it looked as if PDP was going back to its pre-2015 era, where impunity and imposition of candidates were its greatest undoing. But, with the promise of a free and transparent primary election by the party’s leadership, and the aspirants’ assurance to accept the outcome and support whoever emerges as candidate, PDP was again able to overcome this challenge. The October 6, 2018, national convention that produced Atiku as presidential candidate strengthened the party the more. At the moment, PDP believes it won the February 23 presidential election. It accused the APC of using the military and other security agencies to intimidate INEC to deny its presidential candidate, Atiku victory, in the election. One of spokespersons for Atiku Presidential Campaign, Alhaji Buba Galadima, said records were available to show that PDP won the election. “They said they won and want to go to court to inspect the election materials that is clearly to show they rigged the election. “I am speaking with authority and I can defend it in the court of law. Have you ever heard that a respondent went to court to check the results of an election because he was not sure his agents did the right thing?” Galadima asked. While the opposition party is optimistic of turning the table against the APC at the tribunal, only time will tell whether dream will come to fruition.