Several princes from the royal lineages have shown interest in the vacant stool of Olowo of Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State following the conclusion of funeral rites of Oba David Folagbade Olateru-Olagbegi.  The Olowo stool, however, became vacant early this month following the passage of Oba David Folagbade Olateru-Olagbegi. However, prominent among the princes who had shown interest in the vacant stool are the Royal Houses of Olagbegi, Ogunoye, and Ajike. But princes from other Royal Houses including that Aghagunghaye Royal House said the kingmakers and the Senior Omoolowo should not overlook them in the selection of the next monarch of the town.  A member of the Aghagunghaye Royal House, Prince Rotimi Ibidapo said the kingmakers must choose among the available and qualified princes to occupy the revered stool of Olowo without limiting their search to only the three prominent Royal Houses. Although Ibidapo said he was not contesting for the stool for personal reasons, he, however, said his Aghagunghaye Royal House had qualified princes to occupy the throne. According to him, all princes from the Royal Houses would see themselves as qualified to occupy the throne but the kingmakers must select the best among them.  He said:“You cannot say you are not interested in your father’s belonging. But what I can assure you is that the issue of next Olowo is very pregnant. A lot of people both home and abroad have been putting pressures on me that I should vie for the vacant stool. I am very qualified for the position by virtue that I am from a royal family. My lineage is. Aghagunghaye “The point is that I am not interested in the position in this dispensation. I want to allow the kingmakers and the people of Owo to choose whoever they want among the qualified princes as Olowo. The future can speak for itself. My forefathers had become king in this kingdom. “There are lots of pressures on me, but I have to review it by myself. For me,  this is not the right time for me.  But whoever they choose will enjoy the same support the late Olowo enjoyed from me. “Anybody they want to pick must be accepted by the community. The person must have the fear of God and to carry everybody along because the vacuum created by the immediate past Olowo has created is so huge that if you are not ready for that position, you don’t dare it. Owo kingdom requires someone with enough contact and connection to bring development to the town.  “That is why I am appealing to the kingmakers to widen their horizon in picking a candidate to fill the position of Olowo. Nobody can foreclose my family, I am not from Olagbegi, Ogunoye or Ajike, my own lineage is Aghagunghaye. There is nobody or law that forbids other princes from contesting.  “The position of Olowo in Yorubaland is very sacrosanct that can stand shoulder to shoulder with Oba of Benin, Ooni of Ife and all prominent monarchs. If you look at it critically, Sir Olateru-Olagbegi, the father of this late Olowo was the Chairman of the House of Chiefs in the Western Region for many years. It was him and Ooni that went to Britain in 1956 when Nigeria was agitating for independence.