…says Wike was victim of propaganda, fake election monitors  A United States think-tank group, the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab, has said in a report that the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, was the target of some Facebook accounts operated by Archimedes Group, an Israeli political consulting and lobbying firm, during the campaign for the 2019 presidential election in Nigeria.  According to the analysis of the affected accounts done by the think tank group in a news report published on Friday by Associated Press (AP), titled: “Israeli disinformation campaign targeted Nigerian election”, the firm stated that the affected accounts appeared to have launched a sustained campaign against Atiku’s candidacy while rooting for his opponent and incumbent, President Muhammadu Buhari to win a second term.  President Buhari was declared winner of the February 23 presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), after polling 15,191,847 votes to Atiku’s 11,262,978. Atiku has filed a petition before the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal to contest the result.  Last Thursday, Facebook, through its head of cyber security policy, Mr. Nathaniel Gleicher, announced at a press conference the social media giant removed a total of 265 accounts, pages, groups and events involved in coordinated inauthentic behaviour which aimed to influence elections in Nigeria, Senegal, Togo, Angola, Niger and Tunisia along with some activity in Latin America and South-East Asia. Gleicher disclosed that some of the suspected activity was linked to Tel-Aviv-based Archimedes as its network was discovered to have used affected accounts to run pages, disseminate their content and artificially increase engagement. According to the Research Lab report, most of the deleted fake Facebook pages claimed to be run by local Nigerian users, but were managed from Israel. The report also said that Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, was consistently targeted by fake propaganda who masqueraded as impartial election monitors in the state’s election. The news report read: “Many of the pages and accounts were discovered to be linked to a Tel Aviv-based political consulting and lobbying firm named Archimedes. On its sparse website of African stock images, the company advertises its deliberate efforts to conduct disinformation campaigns, boasting that it takes ‘every advantage available in order to change reality according to our client’s wishes’ through “unlimited online accounts operation. “One of the pages that Facebook cancelled appeared filled with viral misinformation attacking Abubakar, the former Vice President of Nigeria. The page’s banner image showed Abubakar as Darth Vader, the Star Wars villain, holding up a sign reading, ‘Make Nigeria Worse Again.’ “Another page with almost identical visuals, although significantly excluding the Darth Vader mask, purported to support Abubakar, with the slogan ‘Team Atiku For President.’” The report identified the page as a covert attempt to infiltrate Abubakar’s audience of potential voters and manipulate their views, gradually spamming them with antithetical content and diverting them to the “Make Nigeria Worse” page.” The think tank report also featured a page that explicitly lionized and boosted Buhari, with amateur videos eulogizing the accomplishments of his presidency as though he were not locked in a tight battle for re-election. “Yet another series of pages targeted the local Rivers State elections in Nigeria’s turbulent South, which was marred by widespread violence. Several of the removed pages attempted to defame a candidate from Abubakar’s People’s Democratic Party and boost his opponent. One page with artificially amplified audience engagement, called ‘Rivers Violence Watch,’ pumped out political propaganda while posing as a neutral monitor of election violence, using the page description to mask its efforts.” However, the Digital Forensics lab could not assign a particular ideological motive to Archimedes’ campaigns, given the diversity and scope of its general operations, but said, “The company, which poured over $800,000 (N287,200,000) into deceptive content over the past several years, appeared profit-driven. “The report did not probe the origins of its cash flow, and it was not clear whether political actors in Nigeria or other countries where the campaigns took off had paid for the company’s ‘strategic consulting.’ “The fact the pages were operated by a for-profit company is a troubling sign that highly partisan disinformation is turning into a capital enterprise,” the report said. Incidentally, the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab report is coming on the heels of recent claims of election meddling levelled against Russia by the US in the 2016 poll in which President Donald Trump upset the bookies’ favourite, Hillary Clinton.