The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has warned that it would no longer accept names of candidates from political parties which failed to conduct proper primaries. Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu at the presentation of certificates of return to Zamfara State governor-elect and National Assembly members-elect yesterday in Abuja, said there are 809 pre-election cases arising from last year’s political party primaries still pending in various courts across the country. “Going forward, we will not accept the submission of names of candidates by political parties under Sec. 31of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) unless there is evidence, monitored by the commission, of compliance with the provision of Sec. 87 of the Act. “Party members interested in contesting elections start as aspirants before they emerge as candidates through the democratic process of direct or indirect primaries enshrined in Sec. 87 of the Electoral Act. “It is only after they comply with this requirement of the law can their names be submitted to INEC under Sec. 31,” Prof. Yakubu stated. He disclosed that the number of certificates of return withdrawn by the order of the Court has risen to 64, including the 36 withdrawn from the All progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State. “In addition, the commission is studying nine more judgements we were served in the last one week in which primary elections conducted by different political parties were upturned by the courts,” the INEC Chairman said. He stressed the importance of political parties to conduct credible primaries for the nomination of candidates, adding that the nation’s democracy and the electoral process “cannot be virile unless political parties rise to the challenge of internal party democracy. “It is in this context that the latest judgements of the Supreme Court are crucial steps in strengthening our electoral jurisprudence.” The governor-elect, Bello Mohammed Matawelle, commended INEC for ensuring level playing field for all the political parties that contested in the Zamfara elections. He also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for non-interference in the judicial process.