Claims on insured fertilisers were recently disbursed to farmers, who suffered some losses as a way to further encourage them and their colleagues to fully embrace agriculture insurance. Sunday Ojeme reports  Federal Government’s expanded programme to ensure food security and also encourage farmers from not giving up in their profession in the event of losses, gained further boost recently, as some subscribers to the Area Yield Index Insurance (AYII) got compensated. The AYII policy, launched last year, is a further step to accelerate growth of agriculture insurance in the country. It is a partnership programme between PULA and Leadway Assurance Company with support from Nigeria Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) and the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation (NAIC). As part of its mandate towards protecting small scale farmers in the country via the Area Yield Index Insurance (AYII), PULA Advisor, an insurance and technology company settled some farmers that subscribed to some of their insured agric products in Kaduna.
The event was for those farmers who had claims during the pilot phase of the programme in 2018 to come and receive their claims pay out. Expanded programmes NIRSAL, in conjunction with NAIC and NAICOM had launched the NIRSAL Comprehensive Index Insurance (NCII) scheme for farmers. The policy is a combination of Yield Index, Price Index and Life Insurance. Members of the consortium include Axa Mansard, IGI, Leadway, and Royal Exchange with PULA Advisors as consultant to NIRSAL on Agricultural Insurance). According to the details, NCII is designed to safeguard farmers against risks along the agricultural value chain, and an improvement over AYII. The product is especially targeted at small-holder farmers – the most vulnerable segment in the agricultural sector and the Nigerian population as a whole. Apart from being an innovative form of revenue insurance, it is also unique in Africa. It is also the first such product to be achieved without government subsidies on the premium. Beyond its benefits to farmers, NCII’s comprehensive cover will also encourage financial institutions to lend more to primary production and ensure reduced premiums in comparison with the earlier version. Unlike in the past when NAIC dominated the scene, a wider window of opportunity has been opened for all insurance operators to key into the programme. IBAI Recall that NAICOM had also granted product approval to five insurance companies participating in the Index-Based Agricultural Insurance (IBAI) pilot scheme. The Director, Inspectorate, NAICOM, Barineka Thompson, had described IBAI as a relatively new financial instrument for transferring agriculture risks from individuals or groups of farmers to (international) risk carriers (Insurers), adding that in an Index-Based System, when a claim is triggered for a specific area, all insured units (farmers) within a given geographical area and having similar characteristics, are compensated at the same payout rate, usually a percentage of the sum insured, on events specifically covered by the policy (usually those for which the proxy(ies) meet the specified triggers). “The 2017 planting (wet) season has gone with five insurance companies participating in the consortium mainly under the NIRSAL facility, we anticipate that more companies will join in the 2018 planting season as a result of greater awareness and the upcoming capacity building programme,” Thompson said. Although NAIC had been in existence for long, many Nigerian farmers have failed to take advantage of the benefits due mainly to ignorance. Technological input Speaking at the event for payout to AYII beneficiaries, the Country Manager and Project Director of PULA in Nigeria, Dr. Samson Ajibola, explained that the company uses technology to drive agric insurance to ensure that excluded small time farmers get insurance by making insurance easily accessible to them. Ajibola said that PULA’s partnership with Flour Mills of Nigeria served as the operation engine that carries out production and labeling of the fertiliser, while Leadway Assurance Company Limited see to it whether there is either a loss or not. He also disclosed that PULA does the field work by tracking every bag of fertiliser in every village and agro dealers shop so that as farmers buy the fertilisers, it makes sure their data are captured like phone number, BVN, type of crops, their location among others. He said: “In fact, the size of the farmlands is also captured; and at the end of the season before farmers start harvesting, PULA accompany them to the field for the harvest to measure exactly what their yield is, take GPS location of the farms, take pictures and ask them what were their challenges during the season. By so doing, we are able to collect the yield data to calculate and ascertain whether farmers had a claim or not.” Wide acceptance On the acceptance of the programme, he said seeing the reaction of farmers at the event showed that they actually accepted the programme because the pilot was on 25kg bag, pointing out that two bags of 25kg of fertiliser was more expensive compared to 50kg bag, yet farmers still go for the 25kg. “When you ask them why they preferred the 25kg bag, the reply is that they go for that because of insurance.” Available data also showed that farmers were ready to even pay 10 per cent more than the normal cost of production because they want to get insurance. The country manager explained further that if a local farmer with less than 10 hectares can buy an agric products, especially those with insurance and ensure that the product is activated, when floods, quilerbirds, pest, diseases, drought among other negative effects on the yield, the farmer can be sure it’s not going to be a total loss but something no matter small is going to come back to him to serve as a starting point for the next season. He encouraged local farmers to buy products with insurance label, pointing out that it will help cushioned some of the effects of what they could not control in their farm investment. On his part, Victor Oritedi, Head, Sales of Agro Input, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc, explained that paying out to farmers that used their fertilizers that have insurance on them, is a fulfillment on their path. According him, the insured fertilizers guarantees some form of yield on the area they are farming and that if there is a short fall in the established yield, which they are supposed to have, the company compensate them to enable them not to have complete loss in the whole farming exercise, and that is why they are partnering with PULA and Leadway Assurance to help them achieve it. Last line  As farmers benefit from agric insurance keeps expanding with the latest being on fertilizer through AYII, it is expedient at this point for government, operators and other stakeholders to do the needful by further educating the public, especially other farmers on what is on ground for them. As part of its mandate towards protecting small scale farmers in Nigeria via the Area Yield Index Insurance (AYII), PULA Advisor, an insurance and technology company has settled some farmers that subscribed to some of their insured agric products in Kaduna. PULA, in partnership with Leadway Assurance Company with support… In “Business” Nigeria’s quest to become self-sufficient in food production has continued to gain traction especially through sudden realisation of the role insurance plays in developing the agric sector. SUNDAY OJEME reports     Although agric insurance had existed for long in the country with services provided by the Nigeria Agriculture Insurance… In “Business” Recurring disaster on Nigeria’s farmlands is providing more ground for the Federal Government to widen the scope of agric insurance campaign. Sunday Ojeme reports.   About two weeks ago, the Federal Government bungled another opportunity to sell insurance to Nigerian farmers with the president skipping that aspect while promising farmers… In “Business”