As the Bayelsa state November 16 governorship election approaches, the governor of the state Henry Seriake Dickson has told those hoping to take over from him to stop scheming, sponsoring publications on the pages of newspapers but instead work hard to endear them to him and to the party The governor who was speaking yesterday in Yenagoa during a media chat disclosed that he was still in charge of the government and party in the state stating that he has the right to support any candidate of his choice. Disclosing that he has two major tasks ahead of him now, the governor maintained that he has the task of conducting the local government election and transiting the next government come February 14, 2020. He promised to give 20% chance to women in next local government election coming up in July adding that he will make sure that the women have about 20% of the councillorship seats in the local governments. Governor Dickson also said the next governor of the state will emerge through fervent prayers adding that he has already told the prayer team to make out days for praying and fasting. In his words” “I have told the prayer team to get days for praying and fasting to take over the transition activities because the stakes are so high. “All those people who are coming to contest because we have made the party attractive should know that it is only through hard work that they can get here. “All those that said that they want to be governor should talk about using federal might against the people of Bayelsa state. “They should talk about the 3000 IDPs that were chased away from their communities during the last election. “They should know that scheming cannot get them elected but through hard work. I just want them to be up to the reality that we are in opposition. On the local government election, he said” I had incredible support from women and youths of this state. I want to make sure that 20% councillorship given to women. “These are women going through a hard time feeding their homes. If this is what I will do for them as a parting gift, I will be delighted. “Also youths that have supported my government that protect me and my government will be given political positions will still transit strongly adding that all should brace up for a hard time ahead of us.