 DISAGREEMENT University of Lagos (UNILAG) is presently at war with itself. There is a lingering crisis among the management, Governing Council and the university chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), which, if not resolved, may drag the image of the 57-year-old university in the mud   There is palpable disquiet at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), following a lingering crisis rocking the management of the university. The Governing Council, led by the Pro-Chancellor/Chairman of Council, Dr. Wale Babalakin, was said to have directed the Registrar/Secretary to the Council, Mr. Oladejo Azeez, to issue letters of query to some senior management officials of the university, including the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe; two of his deputies – Professors Folasade Ogunsola and Oluwole Familoni. This is as the management of the institution-led by the Vice-Chancellor, the governing council and the lecturers, under the umbrella of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) have publicly engaged in a dirty fight. Given the crisis, if not urgently addressed, the university may be heading for big crisis. But, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr. Wale Babalakin had told New Telegraph that “There is no crisis.” The crisis, however, blew open on Tuesday, April 30, with the issuance of letters of query to a good number of senior management officials of the university including the Vice-Chancellor and two of his deputies, as well as the immediate past Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Rahamon Bello; former Registrar, Taiwo Ipaye; immediate past Bursar and his successor, Dr. Lateef Odekunle and Mr. Lekan Lawal respectively, who were also queried. Also queried were the former Deputy Vice-Chancellor in charge of Management Services, Prof. Duro Oni; incumbent Dean of Students’ Affairs, Prof. Ademola Adeleke; for-mer Directors of Works, Niyi Ayeye and Adelere Adeniran; Director of Academic Planning, Prof. Lucian Chukwu; Head of the University Procurement Unit, James Akanmu, and the Director of Foundation Programme, Prof. Timothy Nubi. The letters of query, which bordered on allegations of corrupt practices such as contract splitting, signing of voucher above approval limit, travelling without permission, among others, were signed by the University Registrar, Mr. Oladejo Azeez. Azeez, who doubled as the Secretary to the Governing Council, had reportedly issued the queries on the instruction of the Pro-Chancellor/Council Chair, Dr. Wale Babalakin. Irked by the development, the university’s chapter of ASUU, which expressed dissatisfaction with the action of the Registrar and Council chair, in its response advised its members that were affected in the action to reach out to ASUU leadership for appropriate action. This was as ASUU, in its letter of Thursday, May 2, and which was signed by its Chairman, Dr. Dele Ashiru, accused Dr. Babalakin of arrogating too much power to himself. The letter, which was titled: “Creeping Tyranny and Looming Anarchy in the University of Lagos,” however, condemned the action of the Registrar. The letter reads: “Our fears that a vicious, vindictive and meddlesome leviathan at the head of the University of Lagos Council has sadly been confirmed.Our union has received an avalanche of complaints from members, who are in receipt of “queries” most recklessly and illegally authorised by the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin through the Registrar. “This dictatorial, unprocedurial, illegal and deliberate bye-pass of the university administration, whose duty is that of day-to-day running of the university, is strange and dangerous. It is sad and shameful that the purported report(s) which the pro-chancellor is acting upon has not been received by the university’s council. This arbitrariness and ‘one-man show’ is repulsive and unacceptable to our union as it smacks of vindictiveness.” However, on Friday, May 3, the Registrar had in a statement made available to New Telegraph, entitled: “The Need to Tell the Truth,” accused ASUU of inconsistency and insincerity, and sought for specific laws of the institution that was violated by the action of the council chairman. The Registrar in the statement also accused the union of being purveyor of lies in the past, and that their argument could not stand. The statement reads in part; “The attention of the Registry has been drawn to the circular issued by Dr. Dele Ashiru, the Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Lagos branch, on 2nd May 2019. In the said release, the union accused the Council of the university of tyranny because Council sought explanation of certain activities and expenditure in the university. “The notice did not identify any specific laws or regulation of the university that was violated by the Council. The Office of the Registrar would be glad to receive the specific law or rule of the university that was breached to enable us pass it to Council. “It is noteworthy that on previous occasions within the tenure of this Council, ASUU has issued notices criticising the Council for taking certain steps, and all these occasions ASUU was not right. For example, when ASUU issued a statement that the meeting between Council and the Senate was unprecedented in the history of our university, it turned out to be wrong because the previous Councils under Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) and Deacon Gamaliel Onosode also had similar meetings with the Senate.” Specifically, the Registrar also listed other instances where ASUU had eaten its words in the past and surrendered to the supremacy of the council leadership, especially in the award of a Distinguished Professor to Prof. Dele Olowokudejo. “Similarly, ASUU issued a statement condemning the non-confirmation of Prof. Dele Olowokudejo as a Distinguished Professor as an unprecedented violation of the academic autonomy of the University. Again, the statement turned out to be very wrong as it is clearly provided in the University of Lagos Act 1967 that the Council is the approving authority for all honours to be conferred by the University. “It is unbelievable that the same ASUU that approached/and appealed to the Pro-Chancellor to confirm Olowokudejo’s appointment as a Distinguished Professor outside plenary after Council had taken a decision to step down his appointment in plenary is now making a case that the Chairman of Council cannot act for Council outside plenary. A paramount cornerstone for proper learning is intellectual honesty and consistency. “We urge ASUU to remember that the University of Lagos is a centre of learning, where the pursuit of knowledge is very paramount. There is nothing worse than the tyranny of ignorance.” But, miffed by the Registrar’s statement in response to ASUU’s position in the matter, the university’s Vice-Chancellor issued the Registrar a query, demanding explanation within 24 hours. According to the Vice-Chancellor, it was wrong of the Registrar to have issued such a statement without his approval, even as he cited relevant sections of the institution’s law that place the Registrar under the control of the Vice-Chancellor. The Vice-Chancellor’s statement reads: “In light of the foregoing, you are expected to explain the reason for the publication, bearing in mind Section 3 (1), 6 (1) of the University of Lagos Act (1961), as amended, which states inter alia – “There shall be a Registrar, who shall be the administrative officer of the university and shall be responsible to the vice-chancellor for the day-to-day administrative work of the university.” However, ASUU on the part, quickly fired back at the Registrar, describing him as a puppet to the Council chairman. The union said it had never attacked or condemned the council, but that it would stand against the Chairman arrogating council’s power to himself. The union further said: “The attention of our union has been drawn to a most disparaging circular, titled: “The Need to Tell the Truth,” singed by Oladejo Azeez, Esq. the University Registrar. Ordinarily, our union would not have dignified the voice of the Pro-Chancellor in the hand writing of Oladejo Azeez but for the barefaced lies and falsehood characteristic of the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin. For the avoidance of doubt, the said circular indicated that our union did not identify any specific laws or regulations of the university that was violated by Council. The correct position is that our union has no problem with the university council and has never accused it of any wrong doing. Our grouse is the crude usurpation of Council’s powers by the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin. The Registrar also claimed that “at previous occasions ASUU claimed that the meeting between Council and the Senate was unprecedented in the history of our university.” The Registrar should be reminded that Council is not the same as the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council. Our contention has always been that the Pro-Chancellor, Dr. Wale Babalakin cannot approximate the Council of the University of Lagos. Furthermore, the mere fact that an illegality had occurred in the past does not mean that it cannot be corrected when such is pointed out. All the fears expressed by this same Dr. Ashiru as the said Senate meeting which the Pro-Chancellor shamelessly denied, are now manifesting.” While insisting that it would continue to stand against what it described as Dr. Babalakin’s tyranny, arrogance and power usurpation, ASUU added: “For the incompetent and willing inconsequential tool called Oladejo Azeez, who was smuggled into the office as lame duck Registrar and Secretary to the Pro-Chancellor, he should be reminded that there is a limit to sycophancy and flunkey bootlicking. Oladejo Azeez should get familiar with the function(s) of a seasoned University Registrar and stop deploying the paraphernalia of his esteemed office in the service of a brutish leviathan.” But, when New Telegraph sought the reaction of the Chairman of the Council on the matter, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria denied any crisis in the university. In a terse response to our inquiry, Dr. Babalakin wrote: “There is no crisis. The truth will stand and lies will collapse.” Meanwhile, New Telegraph is aware of efforts of the university’s stakeholders to resolve the degenerating situation as soon as possible, especially as the NUGA, which to be hosted by UNILAG is around the corner. According to credible sources, the university’s alumni association under the leadership of the popular broadcaster and owner of Channels Television, Dr. John Momoh, is rallying support to appeal to the warring faction to sheath their swords. The source, who craved anonymity, said the association is concerned with the university’s image and would want everything resolved as soon as possible to avoid further embarrassment. The source said: “You know one thing; the university is bigger than everyone. All these parties who are at war will leave the university system one day, but the image of the university is very important. We cannot say because of personal interest we want to damage the legacies bequeathed to us by the founding fathers. Things must be done in the right way.” The source also said that as soon as Dr. Momoh arrives from his trip abroad where he was recently honoured with an award, he will join the other stakeholders including his predecessor, Chief Sunny Kuku and retired Prof. Olaide Abass, among others, who are currently working round the clock to ensure the matter is solved as quickly as possible.