 Some manufacturing firms operating in Nigeria’s export market are already being schemed out of the N5.12 billion Export Expansion Grant (EEG) payment approved by the Federal Government for non-oil exporters in this year’s budget, New Telegraph has learnt.
Already, the Federal Government has pledged to pay the backlog of incentives for non-oil exporters hovering at about N1.2 trillion, which it stated it would honour only N5.12 billion of such debts based on provisions made in the 2019 budget.
Although, the proposal is to issue promissory notes in lieu of EEG claims for the legacy claims, EEG claims has been processed and approved during series of meetings of the Implementation Committee.
A reliable exporter of manufactured products, in an interview with this newspaper in Lagos, explained that genuine manufacturing firms were being denied the fund by government agency amid politicking and alleged irregularities in paper documentations submitted.
The source said that they were facing challenges in getting the fund, which was taking a toll on their bottom-line and investments.
Particularly, the source revealed that exporters were owed approximately N350 billion towards the revised EEG scheme claims for the year 2007 to 2016, but the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) puts the backlog at about N1.2 trillion, in which government approved N5.12 billion for payment this year.
Similarly, another exporter and Managing Director, Pally Agro Products Limited, Mrs. Anwuh Onyeagu, in a chat with this newspaper, stated that government should urgently intervene in the matter.
She explained that genuine exporters needed the incentive to boost their business.
According to her, government needs to support exporters involved in exporting of Nigerian goods with incentives, lamenting that it was difficult out there to operate in the sector.
Onyeagu affirmed that about 60 per cent of export companies had shut their factories amid harsh operating environment.
“I won’t say that the Federal Government has not been supportive, they have been very supportive of us (exporters) even the banks,” he said. “But then, a lot more support is needed in terms of export proceeds’ availability for exporters in the export market.
“I can tell you that many exporters are still facing challenges in the forex market. We need more forex to be available to us in this export industry because we are giving real quality goods and this makes it very expensive.
“I don’t know if government can really support us in terms of export proceeds so that for those that are really taking the pains to export goods, there should be a form of returns to us at least with those bonds given to us, we can utilise it and also payback the money.
“It is something they should really look at to assist us in that direction. They need to compensate us because if you look at the business in a glance, it is very discouraging. I can tell you like 60 per cent firms have packed up since they could not meet up with the challenges in the sector.”
In a chat with the Director-General, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Segun Ajayi-Kadir, he described the N5.12 billion allocation as grossly insufficient to drive the needed impetus in the country’s export market.
He said that the association believed that government needs to jerk up the scheme’s payment since many exporters rely on it as the catalyst for the revival of the country’s real sector growth.