 Startling revelations have emerged of how over N93 million meant to cater for the four Nigerian culture centres (already closed down), were siphoned under controversial circumstances by some top officials of the Ministry of Information and Culture. The centres, according to Saturday Telegraph’s investigation, are located in Pelourinho, Salvador da Bahia, Brazil; Beijing, China; Johannesburg, South Africa and Trinidad and Tobago. Former staff of the ministry and other cultural work-ers, who raised the alarm following the under hand dealings in the ministry which had also culminated in the continued budgetary allocations for the four centres, showed that the ‘fraudulent act’ have been going on in the last three years. Findings showed that the centre in Brazil, which was opened in 2008 was closed down in 2014 while that of China opened in 2012 was closed in 2016, same with the ones in South Africa and Trinidad and Tobago, which were opened around 2013 and 2014. The reason for their closure is said to be as a result of huge debts owed to the owners of the properties where these centres were located while the Nigerian cultural officers that manned them were also owed backlog of salaries and allowances. Despite the huge debts incurred, yearly budgetary allocations were made to these centres as investigation revealed that in 2017 budget, N68 million was allocated while in 2018 budget N25, 641.023 was allocated for the centres in Brazil and China and in the this year’s budget, which has just been passed by the National Assembly, the sum of N45 million was allocated for the four centres. Staff of the ministry and cultural workers further alleged that these monies had gone into private pockets while the centres and cultural officers in charge of them were staved of funds. The staff allegedly fingered the minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Deacon Grace Gekpe, and directors in the ministry of having knowledge of where these monies have disappeared to. On her part, Gekpe, when approached on the matter, denied the alllegation, saying she was not aware of the development as the centres were all closed down before her assumption of office. (See pages 34/35 for the full story) Background What appears to be the first ever Nigeria experiment at what many may term cultural diplomacy have met with total failure as Nigeria cultural centres in South Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Brazil and China have been shut down following the failure of the Nigerian government to fund the… In “Travel and Tourism” Sequel to Nigeria and fellow African countries' gathering in Beijing for the 7th Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC), the benefits derived from the China-Africa cooperation within the last 18 years cannot be over emphasized. These benefits spanning from roads construction, light railways construction, hydropower projects to mention but a few,… In “Features” Despite top Presidency officials routinely flying out of the country to seek medical attention, the Federal Government allocated a total of N9.17 billion for the operations of the State House Medical Centre between 2015 and 2018, findings by New Telegraph show. The figure could, in fact,  hit N10 billion… In “News”