A minister, Pastor Michael Arowosaiye, has committed suicide over challenges said to be linked with accommodation. It was learnt that Arowosaiye committed suicide on Tuesday in his residence at Sunnyvale Estate, Abuja. According to witnesses, when people entered his home, they found that he had hanged himself with his belt. The deceased was said to be a minister in the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), but the church said Arowosaiye left the church in 2018. Arowosaiye was said to have recently ministered at a Youth Praise event in the church. He was believed to have fallen into depression over his accommodation issues. This challenge allegedly made him to decide to end his life. On April 13, the deceased was among ministers who participated at ‘Revival in our City,’ Mpape youth prayer fest, at Nana field, GRA-Mpape. Arowosaiye posted on March 6: “Please youths of today, let’s be really prayerful. The devil is roaring like a lion, seeking whom to devour! I invite you to this programme please make it a date.” Commenting on Arowosaiye’s Facebook, one of his friends, Chijioke Ceejay Nwugo, said: “The young pastor thinks this is the best solution for him. I swear you are a coward brother. I am just worried about those you left behind, but you are a coward.” Another friend, Ferdinand Mbum, noted: “Something definitely went wrong somewhere with the pastor. I thought he was worshiping with Shepherd’s House? How come we’re hearing RCCG? Blessing Chizzy Christian said: “Nigeria needs deliverance. The rate of suicide is alarming. It’s so surprising.” Speaking with our correspondent, the Head of Media of the RCCG, Pastor Olaitan, said Arowosaiye was no longer with the church before his death. Olaitan said Arowosaiye was until last year a member of the Regional Youth Choir. He said the deceased left RCCG to join Shepherd’s House Assembly sometimes last year. Olaitan said he learnt that Arowosaiye complained of lack of job before he left RCCG for Shepherd’s House Assembly.