  The National Assembly two weeks ago passed the 2019 budget into law. The budget, which was unanimously approved by the Senate and the House of Representatives was raised to N8.916 trillion. That was about N90 billion higher than the N8.826 trillion proposed by President Muhammadu Buhari in December 2018. One of the highlights of the budget was the N23.7 billion approved by the lawmakers as “severance gratuity for outgoing legislators and legislative aides, allowances for incoming legislators and legislative aides, and induction programme/inauguration of the 9th Assembly.” We are happy that the budget has been passed by the 8th National Assembly, whose life would ends in June. The 9th Assembly would be inaugurated on June 9 this year. With the second term of President Buhari starting on May 29 this year, the president now has a working fiscal document with which to kick off his second term smoothly. We are, however, not comfortable with the N23.7 billion approved as severance, gratuity and other reasons by the National Assembly. That is not because we do not believe that they are deserving of the benefit, but because of the recurring penchant for outgoing public officers in the country to award themselves generous disengagement packages. For one, for a country, where the poverty rate keeps soaring daily, occasioned by poor governance, the mass of the country is left shorthanded in the scheme of things daily, while their elected representatives as the executive, legislature at both the state and federal levels have a ball, slicing off chunks of national resources at their whim. Across the country, the story is replete with generous financial handshakes awarded to former presidents, governors, legislators and even local government officials who are leaving or have left office for several years. Thus, while the former political office holders continue to enjoy the pecks of office outside it, the citizens continue to wallow in abject poverty, engineered by those on such pensions, severance packages or similar goodies.  The 2019 budget has a provision for about N2.3 billion to service former presidents, heads of state and their deputies. By our calculations, those receiving the huge chunk, which is an annual event, are not more than 25 in all. Yet, the country keeps budgeting such huge sums for them annually. In states such as Lagos, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Abia and some others, former governors of such states are perpetually being renewed with the finances of the states to the detriment of the populace. That is not minding how woeful their performances might have been in office. What is paramount is that they successfully served out one or two terms. Thus, the states owe them forever for services rendered and not rendered. Quite recently, it took the will of the Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, to stop members of the state assembly from roping the state into perpetual financial commitment to them. The governor declined assent to a bill passed by the assembly to reward themselves and others financially for the rest of their lives. The financial commitment went as far back as former lawmakers, including persons of Bayelsa origin, who served in the old Rivers State, who would enjoy life pensions as applicable to former presidents, vice presidents, governors and deputy governors. The Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly had on May 26, 2014, approved generous pensions for the state governors and their deputies after their service to the state. The law allowed the governors to earn severance gratuity allowance of 300 per cent of their annual basic salary as at the time of leaving office. A former governor of Akwa Ibom State and spouse will also be entitled to N100 million for medicals annually, and a former deputy governor and spouse a maximum of N30 million. In Lagos, former governors and their deputies who served out their terms are entitled to 100 per cent of their annual basic salaries. The former governors are also entitled to one residential house in Lagos and another in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, while one residential house in Lagos for the deputy. The former governors also have three cars, two back-up cars and one pilot car for the ex-governor every three years. A former deputy governor is entitled to two cars, two back-up cars and one pilot car every three years. We are worried that while Nigeria is now regarded as the world capital of poverty, our elected officials at both state and national levels are very comfortable, signing away large chunks of money into their pockets, while the citizens groan with government-inflicted poverty. Among those who would benefit from the largesse of the latest generosity of the National Assembly are some former governors, who may also be on pension in their states. They are receiving double portions of blessings from the public till aside their entitlements, over-bloated salaries, and other legitimate and illegitimate earnings while in power. We are therefore of the view that our leaders must lead by example. Since 1983, Nigerians have been constantly told to tighten their belts. Incidentally, our leaders keep expanding their own belts while critical areas, such as health, education, security and public service suffer abysmally. We do not in any way believe that the gluttony of our leaders are serving Nigeria a good purpose.