Oyo State Governor-Elect, Engr. Seyi Makinde, recently accused Governor Abiola Ajimobi of laying landmines for his incoming government by awarding N30bn contracts and employing workers secretly in order to overload his government’s wage bill, vowing to probe any unwholesome spending at the twilight of the administration. In this interview with SOLA ADEYEMO, the Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Akeem Olatunji, corroborated the allegations, warning civil servants against allowing themselves to be used by Ajimobi to perpetrate illegal acts. Excerpts:  The Governor-elect, Seyi Makinde alleged that Governor Abiola Ajimobi recently awarded some contracts to the tune of N30bn and hurriedly released funds for it. Could you establish this for the records?
We don’t make allegations when there are no evidence. In actual fact, we know that government is a continuum and we are not trying to stampede the incumbent government. Nevertheless, due process has to be followed in whatever is done. For the governor to just wake up one day and start to dash out contracts to cronies, is more or less a way of siphoning the funds of the state. About 33 excavators were recently bought with almost N10bn for local governments. The needs of each local government vary and so the state government should not have embarked on such project now. This was at a time when many of the local governments are finding it difficult to pay their workers’ salary as well as those of the retirees. We believe that government should be able to prioritise people’s needs. Is that enough justification for such a weighty allegation?
Aside this, a situation whereby within two months, more than N50bn projects were awarded by the government calls for worry. Has the government completed the projects on ground? When workers and retirees are being owed, where did they get the funds to execute those projects? If it were an ongoing project that funds were released for, no one will suspect any foul play.
About N34bn excess crude fund belonging to the local government is in the Heritage Bank. This is not the time to spend such money anyhow because the incoming government needs to have something to fall back on. When government is winding up like this, the whole thing becomes bazaar with 10 per cent, 20 per cent being collected as kickback. That is why we are warning civil servants not to engage themselves in any transaction that can implicate them after the transition.
When Governor Ajimobi won the election in 2011, he ordered banks not to honour any cheques issued by the incumbent government then.
If we had wanted to make it a payback, we would have done the same by making things difficult for the government. But if we should do that, we will be making life difficult for the people of Oyo State, and we don’t want people to suffer. How true is the allegation that Ajimobi was surreptitiously employing workers with the intention of increasing the wage bill?
Definitely, we learnt about that as well. What we are saying is that recruiting new set of workers at this time is condemnable in the sense that he was the one that said that Oyo State workforce is over bloated. If that is the position, the governor is not supposed to be the one to be employing workers underneath again.
Many of the state-owned tertiary institutions are under lock and key only because salaries of the workers are not paid. We are looking into increasing the subvention of those institutions because we cannot leave them to fend for themselves just like that if we want them to function effectively. The APC has alleged that the governor-elect is a novice and inexperienced and so people of the state would soon regret voting him. What can you say about this?
Their own very best is the one that has lost the election, that is Adebayo Adelabu. If he is their best, then he is not up to 10 per cent of Seyi Makinde’s capacity. He has never engaged in any private practice. He has been a salary earner before he got the ticket. But Makinde has been an employer of labour for decades and that is the kind of experience needed in governance. It is the same fate of Adelabu that has affected the outgoing governor. Assuming Ajimobi was able to nurture his own business before he assumed the mantle of leadership in Oyo State, his approach to finance would have been different.
Aside this, Seyi Makinde knows how to administer well and that is why we have Senator Hosea Agboola, a former Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, heading the transition committee set up by our party. As a commissioner, he knew what happened in all the wards. Another able hand is Chief Bisi Ilaka. The APC has accused Makinde that, if it were before the election, he would have visited the Shogoye area of Ibadan where a building collapsed, and would have visited and donated money to the victims of the recent petrol explosion at Iwo Road in order to prove himself as a man of the people. But that since he has got what he wanted, he has abandoned the people. Isn’t that true?
Makinde is a kind-hearted person and he actually sympathised with victims of those incidents. But the government was the one that prevented him because we learnt on good authority that, after the election when there was a flood incident at the UI and Makinde went there to sympathise with the victims, the government complained that he has started performing the role of a governor, and that he wanted to ridicule the incumbent. In such a situation, if he had gone to Shogoye, as we learnt, they had wanted to attack him. That was the reason he restrained himself on those two occasions you mentioned. Some APC members are only making that allegation in order to whip up sentiments because their party is already in crises with about three factions rivaling. APC and its candidate have gone to the election petitions tribunal to challenge Seyi Makinde’s victory. How prepared are you as a party?
Well, to us, there is nothing there. The whole thing is just a futile academic exercise. They are the ruling party and they had the NURTW, the police, the logistics, and even the federal might, yet we defeated them hands down. People of Oyo State showed that their voting power was greater than all those powers. Their party leaders are still dazed.
The idea of going to the tribunal is just a ploy to keep their members together. If the process drags for about a year or two and the process of picking candidates commences, they will be using the fake hope in the tribunal to keep their members in the party. We are not losing any sleep over that and I must tell you that our candidate is very confident. The victory is landslide and everybody has seen that. We believe that God is with us and the people are with us.