  Following his arraignment in court on Monday and subsequent remand, the issue of up-and-coming music star, Naira Marley, has remained the most topical discussion in the Nigerian entertainment arena. Fellow entertainers, fans and others continue to express mixed feelings about the manner of his arraignment as well as why he was remanded in prison following his arrest by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on May 10. Speaking to Saturday Telegraph on what led to his being remanded in prison on a day he could have been released on bail, Naira Marley’s lawyer, Olalekan Ojo, SAN, said they filed an application early to ensure his release on bail but it was not to be. “The bail application was filed last week Friday, filed and served that Friday (May 17). The arraignment took place on Monday and the Prosecuting Counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, indicated that the prosecution would be opposing and requested for an adjournment to enable them, they were still within the time frame, to file their counter affidavit and written address in opposition. That was exactly what led to the adjournment.” Dwelling on the 10-day difference between the date of his arraignment and the next court date, a point of agonising detail for the fans of the musicians and others who want to see him freed, Ojo added: “One would have thought that the matter would have been adjourned to maybe this week’s Friday (yesterday). However, the Counsel said he was in other courts and he would like to be there personally. That was the reason for the adjournment to that date and as you know, the bail application comes up for hearing on May 30th, which is Thursday next week, hopefully the court will grant him bail because as it has been rightly noted, it is a bailable offence, there is no reason why there should be any problem about the bail application. You can’t say such a person will run away, no, it is not possible.” On rumours regarding whether Naira Marley had been remanded in EFCC custody or handed over to prison authorities following the court ruling, the Senior Advocate of Nigeria said the High Court sitting in Ikoyi was unequivocal in its pronouncement that the “Issa goal” singer be remanded in prison, with specific emphasis even on the location. “There is no basis for that speculation on where he is being held. The court ordered that he be remanded at Ikoyi Prison and to Ikoyi Prison he was taken after the court ruling on that day. So he is in Ikoyi Prison in accordance with the order of the court,” the legal practitioner stated. “How confident are you approaching Thursday when his bail application is expected to be tabled for hearing?” Saturday Telegraph asked Ojo, to which the lawyer represented by Taiwo Oreagba in court on Monday replied thus: “I am not a judge, the court has the discretion to admit him to bail or not. What I am saying is we will be urging the court to exercise the discretion in his favour knowing full well that by virtue of the mandatory provisions of Section 162 of Administration of Criminal Justice Act, bail is recognised in non-capital offences as a right.”  Consequences are natural if Naira Marley did anything wrong –Foluke Daramola Meanwhile, celebs and other Nigerians continue to offer their opinions on the arraignment of Naira Marley after he was arrested along with side-kick, Zlatan Ibile and others, on May 10. Among the latest to have their say on the matter is actress and rights activist, Foluke Daramola, who took to Instagram days ago to admonish her colleagues who she sees as trying to justify fraud over Naira Marley’s arrest by the EFCC. As far as the actress, now officially Mrs Salako is concerned, Naira Marley should face the consequences if he has done something wrong. “My take is we have to start building a stronger and better Nigeria from you and I. If we say because the country is bad and doesn’t have anything to offer us then we will be the victims of our own misbehavior, never forget we are 1st Nigerians before anything and we can only but be 2nd class citizens wherever we find ourselves so why are we bent on soiling the name of our country further!!!!” she wrote.  Ag. EFCC chairman urges Nigerian entertainers’ cooperation in anti-graft fight Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, called on Nigerian entertainers to collaborate with the agency in its fight against all forms of corruption. In an interactive session with artistes, comedians and OAPs at the EFCC Headquarters in Abuja, Magu said celebs can use their reach to help the commission’s fight against corruption.
“You have a very wide reach, so lend us your voices, please let your works propagate and promote integrity and the right values. “I urge you to raise a collective slogan against all forms of criminality among our youths, condemn in strong terms, ostentatious living without credible sources of income, particularly the get-rich-at-all-cost syndrome among the youths,” he said. Speaking further, Magu, who expressed the readiness of the anti-graft agency to join hands with the creative industry, said the commission needs them “more than ever before to change the negative narratives about our country being havens of internet fraudsters”.
“I have always stressed that we cannot claim to have the monopoly of knowledge of how to fight corruption at the EFCC. “We are however, driven by the passion to explore all frontiers that will enable us to achieve a better society for our children yet unborn – an egalitarian society and one which we all can be proud of. Let’s find a way to reduce or stop our teeming youths from engaging in internet fraud,” he added.  Timaya cites spiritual angle to EFCC versus Naira Marley saga  In his own way of weighing in on the saga involving Naira Marley, Nigerian dancehall star, Timaya, said he believes Naira Marley’s travails were as a result of the way he used his tongue. In a video shared on his Instagram page, the singer used Naira Marley as a case study to prove that the tongue is indeed powerful and attached to one’s fortunes or misfortunes.
According to him, in the music video of Naira Marley titled “Am I Yahoo Boy” and featuring Zlatan Ibile, the singer is seen arrested and just a day after releasing the video, which happened to be his birthday, the singer was arrested in real life. According to Timaya, this is far from mere coincidence. “It as an indication that the tongue is powerful,” the Bayelsa State-born star said while also pointing at examples like DaGrin, 2Pac, XXX Tentacion as among other music stars who died not long after singing about death.  Zlatan Ibile releases song on experience in EFCC detention Meanwhile, the other high profile up-and-coming music act arrested along with Naira Marley, Omoniyi Temidayo, better known as Zlatan Ibile, has dropped a new song titled “4 days in Okotie Eboh”. The single, whose titled refers to Okotie Eboh, the street where the EFCC Lagos office is located, dropped just days after his release via administrative bail. In the song, the musician calls out fake friends while narrating his experience in the custody of the anti-graft agency.
“Pretend you were dead, see who will shed tears over your death. Pretend to be broke and see who’ll ignore you. “We eat and drink together. Just four days and you can’t hide your hatred for me. You guys didn’t expect me to return. Nobody is holy and don’t be quick to judge,” he hit out in lines originally delivered in Yoruba.  SaharaReporters story claims Naira Marley declared wanted in UK in 2014 In a twist that would do the confidence of Naira Marley or anyone close to him no good, a report by SaharaReporters has claimed that “Naira Marley, alongside four men, was declared wanted by Lewisham Police for crimes ranging from robbery to sexual assault on a night bus.” “Contrary to claims by defense counsel of Nigerian singer Azeez Fashola better known as Naira Marley in court that he is a first time offender, findings by SaharaReporters has reveal that the singer was declared wanted by Lewisham Police, United Kingdom, in 2014. “Naira Marley was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Comission in Nigeria for his alleged connection to advance fee fraud and cyber crime. “On Monday 20th of May, 2019, during the arraignment of Naira Marley by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos, a member of his defence counsel, Taiwo Oreagba, who stood in for his lead defence counsel, Olalekan Ojo had pleaded with Hon. Justice I.N Oweibo, the Judge presiding over the case that the singer be remanded in EFCC custody pending the day of his bail hearing. “Oreagba had made the plea to the judge stating that Niara Marley was a first time offender. Justice Oweibo eventually ruled that the singer should be remanded in Prison custody. “In a report published by London news website, Newsshopper on the 11th of June 2014, Naira Marley, alongside four men, was declared wanted by Lewisham Police for crimes ranging from robbery to sexual assault on a night bus.
“In his mugshot, the singer who was 19-years-old at that time was pictured dressed in a black T-shirt and a swollen left eye with a caption that read: “Azeez Fashola, 19, is wanted by police in connection with an incident in Surrey Canal Road, New Cross on March 5,” the report states. If established, it would be a confirmation of the claim of the young man, who spent most of his growing up years in the UK, not long ago that he was arrested multiple times while living abroad.