 A medical doctor, Dr. King James, who saved a dying man mid-air on Saturday, has highlighted the importance of having a functional ambulance at airports in Nigeria. James, who took to his Facebook to describe in great details, how he saved his fellow passenger, stressed that the drama showed him that he was born to save lives. According to him, he was aboard BOEING 737-500 of AZMAN AIR from Kano to Lagos, when the incident occurred. He was sitting on seat 14F, when it suddenly dawned on him that one of his fellow passengers was about to die.
An Indian man, who was sitting beside the dying man, screamed, alerting air officials. The Indian felt the dying man had passed out.
It was a scaring, tense moment, especially since the flight was still several thousands of miles above sea level. James said: “As it is with my nature, I was listening to some music with my earpiece on board this flight. I was rocking myself head forward and backward, my hands slightly moving up to the powerful music of ‘Show us mercy’ by Will Adiks. The movements to the unconscious passenger got my attention. I removed my earpiece. In five powerful long strides I got to the dying patient.” After checking the patient, James told the three air hostesses that, “we can save this life together. His life depends on us now”.
He and two other passengers lifted the dying man from his seat. He said: “I folded two of them and placed them under the neck of the dying man. At this point the dying man was already having rolling up eyes, all white. I listened to his apex heartbeat. It was very weak and faint. I knew in seconds, he would be dead if I didn’t do something fast. I commenced CPR (Cardio-pulmonary resuscitation) on him. He responded. Then he began to convulse uncontrollably. At the top of my voice, I shouted, ‘can someone get me Diazepam please?’ An air hostess ran somewhere to get it. It was 30 minutes before landing. If nothing was done fast he will die in less than 10 mimutes. I repeated CPR again. I listened to the heart using my stethoscope.” Encouraged by the patient’s response, James asked one of the air hostesses to alert the Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA), to arrange an ambulance before the flight landed.
When the flight landed, three male passengers assisted in moving him out of the plane. James became enraged when he noticed that no ambulance was waiting.
He continued: “I was visibly angry and now shouting at the top of my voice to all the airport officials. In a rage I said to them, this is wickedness. We did all our best with God’s help to keep this man alive for 30 minutes and you people could not even get us a waiting ambulance? “Someone suggested that he should be taken in one of the Toyota Hilux van. I said no, it will kill him before we get anywhere. I screamed, ‘Any clinic in the airport?’ That was when their brains came back to default reset and they chorused, ‘Yes.’ That was when we rushed him to the clinic. I explained everything I did and the medications given to the doctor on call. I walked out and looked up to heaven and said, ‘I know you were involved in this. Thank you Lord.’ I actually came to Lagos for an absolutely free medical outreach that’s poorly funded to sick and abandoned Prison inmates at Kirikiri Prison.”