Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State has said that he is leaving the seat of power after four years a wiser man and politically matured. Ambode, who met with President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday at the Presidential Villa, described himself to State House Correspondents, as techno-politician who has gathered experience over the years. The Lagos State governor explained that he was at the Villa to thank President Buhari for inaugurating several projects in the state which he said touches the lives of ordinary Nigerians. According to Ambode, politicians learn every day. Commenting on what lesson he has learnt as a politician in Lagos and in a very unpredictable terrain as Nigeria, the governor said: “You see, every politician learns every day. The fact remains that I came in as a technocrat, so I used to call myself a techno-politician, but I think I am wiser now. I am more of a politician than a technocrat.” Ambode goes into history as the first Lagos governor to have served only one term since the return of democracy to Nigeria in 1999. Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor-elect of Lagos, defeated Ambode to secure the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) last year. APC leaders in the state, including Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a former governor, supported Sanwo-Olu against Ambode. Speaking on what he wants to be remembered for after bowing out of office on May 29, the governor said: “Well, in another 16 days or so, we will be leaving office. But what is important is that I was able to have that opportunity to be elected as governor of Lagos State and to touch humanity in a way that I deem it fit. “We did our best and most importantly the projects we did were people- friendly and peoplecentred. I just think a lot more people have enjoyed the benefits and dividends of democracy than we actually met it. And that gives me joy that we were able to touch lives. “You have to just make positive difference to people or Nigerians, that’s the whole essence of service. I’m grateful that I had that opportunity.” The Lagos State governor had recently also disclosed that he is leaving the state better than he met it, as his administration has grown the economy of the state.