 Nigerian Breweries Plc. has said that the 150 per cent excise tariff imposed on alcoholic beverages, spirits and tobacco by the Federal Government of Nigeria in June, last contributed immensely to the decline of 5.8 per cent in net revenue of the company.
The group posted net revenue of N324.4 billion in 2018 as against N344.5 billion reported in 2017, accounting for a decrease of 5.8 per cent.  Addressing journalists at the company’s pre-annual general meeting in Lagos yesterday, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of NB Plc, Jordi Borrut Bel, lamented that the federal government’s imposed excise duty for alcoholic beverages, spirits and tobacco took huge toll on the company’s bottom-line and finances during the financial year 2018.  Bel noted that last year was a very challenging period for the company in terms of operating environment, adding that the company faced difficult headwinds, especially double digit inflation which disrupted the group’s 2018 financial results projections.
He said that despite the challenging operating environment, it recorded a profit after tax of N19 billion, although lower than the N33 billion recorded in 2017.  “In the course of 2018, the Federal Government effected a change in the country’s excise duty system. The implication of the change on the brewed product sector was two-fold. The first was a change to the method of calculating the duty, that is moving from Ad Valorem Rate to a transparent Specific Rate. The ambiguity that was associated with the former system was therefore removed.  “The second effect of the change however had more significant impact on revenue and profitability as the excise duty rate was raised to 30 kobo per centiliter (N30.00 per liter) of beer effective the 4th of June 2018. In view of the pressure on consumer purchasing power, it was difficult for brewers to pass on the increased cost arising from the duty increase to the consumer. It was therefore an addition cost burden that companies in the sector had to bear,”  “As I earlier mentioned, a new excise duty rate of N30 per litre was introduced in June 2018 and particularly, it translated to approximately a 43 per cent increase from the previous average rate of N21 per litre. It was difficult to pass on this extra cost to consumers in view of weak purchasing power.