The Plateau State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Letep Dabang, in this interview with MUSA PAM speaks on the plans of the rescue administration for the next four years and mocks the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) crisis in the state amongst other issues   As the APC Chairman in Plateau State, what should Plateau citizens expect in the next four years of the Simeon Lalong administration? The good people of Plateau State should be expecting consolidation of the Rescue Agenda of the Lalong administration in the state, especially security is on the topmost agenda. We don’t want to sleep back to the dark days of yesterday. We want Plateau State to remain the home of peace and tourism that is our main focus. Once there is no peace, no tourism there can be; no development of any form. I believe that our amiable Governor Lalong is going to consolidate on that. Again the APC administration is also going to consolidate on the agriculture sector which is very key as one of the five-point agenda of this administration to improve on. We also expect that youth development and youth empowerment which this government has been doing all within its power to ensure we are on top of the situation we will continue through the employment of the youths into government agencies and ministries which is on-going. And then also through training of our youths to make them self-employed through the activities of the PLASMIDA, that is Plateau State Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, has been doing excellently well in the last four years since this government came into power, Governor Lalong has been able to ensure that not less than 13,000 to 15,000 youths were employed into the service at different levels. Right from primary school teachers, secondary school teachers, Ministry of Lands and Survey, Internal Revenue Board and so many areas that our youths have been employed.  When the APC government came into leadership in 2015, the party was in the forefront position when it came to the selection commissioners and other appointment. What are we expecting after May 29, 2019? Well, we believe that it will be the same. We are not expecting any different approach to the matter in 2019. Our governor by the party constitution is a member of the state executive council and so decision of this nature even though it is seen as a decision of the party the governor is involved because he is the member of the state executive council. And it is proper in party politics issues of that nature. And so he has given the party a requisite support to ensure that we contribute in that direction. For me I don’t expect that there will be any change. It will be the same approach.  Don’t you think the APC administration should be able to appoint technocrats, those who can deliver not only from the APC? Well even in 2015 technocrats were appointed as commissioners. There have been technocrats and professionals were brought in to man specific ministries. We will not just put in politicians there for the sake of politics but it just happened that some of these technocrats are into politics. It just fits the situation. But I can assure you that technocrats will always be engaged.  What is your observation about the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari appointed ministers in 2015 without consulting the state governors or party at state level? I am not competent to speak on that because at that level you have the National Secretariat of the party. I don’t know the level of consultation that must have taken place between Mr. President and National Chairman and members of the National Working Committee. If the governors were involved, I am not in the position to say whether they were involved or not. But I believe the President in conjunction with national secretariat will liaise with the governors and I believe that would be done.  The State House of Assembly is still expecting a bye-election in one of the constituencies where you lost one of your members. What is the arrangement towards that? We have written INEC and informed them about the death of our member. They equally informed us that they want to abide by the provisions of Electoral Act, which has 90 days notice. We are waiting for that notice to come and if it comes we will have to prepare. The National Secretariat of the party is also ready positioning itself, waiting patiently for the announcement from INEC for us to come up and conduct primaries to present a candidate that will represent the party at that election. We are fully prepared because that constituency is an APC constituency at any time, any day. So it is just left for us to work very hard to make ensure that it does not sleep out of our hand.  PDP which is the opposition party in the state has always claimed that Plateau State is for PDP. What is your response to that? Plateau State has never been a PDP state. I told you journalists sometime ago that PDP is busy planning on how to fail because, as far as I am concerned APC is rooted in the hearts of the people of Plateau State. You see, it everywhere especially with the laudable programmes put in place by the governor and the way governor is able to keep this state safe for everybody to operate. The PDP I don’t know where they are even from the results you can see it clearly that we have majority in the house of Assembly which is the nearest constituency to the people and that is to tell you the level of grassroots the APC is. In some situations, maybe as a result of some carelessness here and there we have lost one or two seats. I can assure you Plateau State is an APC state. We have two senators, even the one they got was achieved through the back door. I believe that as we are repositioning ourselves for the tribunal by the grace of God that election may not stand. The governor also won an election effectively on the Plateau. So far nobody will tell you that Plateau is a PDP state; anybody who says so is still living in the past.  So are you saying that the PDP candidate who has gone to the tribunal is dreaming? I think some people want to rip us of more money. Maybe what they couldn’t get during the electioneering campaign they want to reap more money to dry up his pocket unnecessarily. As for me there is no reason for such action going to tribunal. You can see even the confusion going on within the PDP. They just told the whole world that they actually lost the election because if you read what they said about party chairman Damisi Sango and his deputy that is to tell you they knew where the problem was. They are accusing Sango of mismanaging the funds meant for campaign and very disturbingly even funds meant for IDPs. You don’t expect anybody in his right senses if there is anything meant for IDPs to divert and the way PDP has told us they were senseless about it. It has been diverted and cannot be accounted for. So if that is the kind of party that wants to rule Plateau, thank God the people of Plateau did not give them the opportunity and they have further exposed their house as a house of worms. 