Researchers in the United States (US) said the more infections or hospitalisations a girl had, the more likely she was to develop anorexia, bulimia or another eating disorder. According to the findings of a new study published in ‘JAMA Psychiatry,’ girls who have serious or repeated infections in childhood are at higher risk for developing eating disorders in adolescence.  Anorexia nervosa, often referred to simply as anorexia, is an eating disorder, characterised by low weight, food restriction, fear of gaining weight, and a strong desire to be thin.  On its part, bulimia nervosa, also known as simply bulimia, is an eating disorder characterised by binge eating followed by purging. Lauren Breithaupt, the lead author and a research fellow at Harvard, said that the reasons for the link are unknown, but “it could be that the anti-infection agents are upsetting the microbes in the gut.  Changing the microbiome could affect behaviours through the connection of the gut to the brain through the vagus nerve.” A microbiome is the ecological community of commensal, symbiotic, and pathogenic microorganisms that literally share our body space.  Giving a breakdown of the observational study  findings, the researchers said compared with girls who had never been hospitalised for infection, those who had been hospitalised were at a 22 per cent increased risk for anorexia, a 35 per cent increased risk for bulimia and a 39 per cent increased risk for other eating disorders.  Furthermore, they stated that filling three or more prescriptions for anti-infection drugs was associated with similar increases in the risk, and the more infections or hospitalisations a girl had, the more likely she was to develop an eating disorder.  Although, the study could not determine cause and effect, the authors acknowledged that other mechanisms — genetic factors, or stress and anxiety, for example — could increase the risk of both eating disorders and infection.  The researchers tracked 525,643 girls — every girl born in Denmark from 1989 through 2006, recorded all prescriptions that were filled for antibiotics and other anti-infective medications, as well as hospitalisations for infection, through 2012. There were 4,240 diagnoses of eating disorders during that time, the study showed