With the Premier League, La Liga and Bundesliga seasons concluded, the other major leagues in Europe will wrap up this weekend with the final round of matches in the Italian Serie A and Ligue I, the French top division. LUKMAN OLOGUNRO in a two-part series reviews the top five leagues including the Eredivisie due to the phenomenal rise of Dutch football at club level as highlighted by Ajax majestic showing in the Champions League  After a breath-taking season occasioned by the record- breaking campaign by Manchester City, the 2018–19 Premier League as widely anticipated, lived up to its billing with lots of never to be forgotten moments.  The season, which was the 27th since the establishment of the Premier League -the top English professional league for association football clubs – commenced on August 10, 2018 with Manchester United posting a 2-1 win over Leicester City with Paul Pogba scoring the first goal.  However, by the time the league got late December, Liverpool were heading the log with City occupying second as the contest assumed a two-horse race dimension.  By February, London club, Tottenham Hotspur, somehow closed the gap between them and the leading duo to four points but the Lilly Whites proved to be lilly livered as they couldn’t keep their foot on the pedal leaving the Kops and the Citizens to slug it out in one of the most fierce tussle for the title. Liverpool, surprisingly have not won the league since its transformation and despite sitting atop of the 20-teams table for most part of the season. Manchester City won their fourth Premier League title, and sixth English top-flight title overall.  They won their last 14 league games and retained the league title on the final day of the season, finishing on 98 points. Liverpool finished runners-up with 97 points – the highest total in English top-flight history for a secondplaced team.   This was Manchester City’s second step i n becoming the first English team to complete a domestic treble, as they earlier won the 2018– 19 EFL Cup and would later win the 2018–19 FA Cup. Man City, managed by the revered Pep Guardiola, that claimed the league title on the final day of the season with a 4–1 win at Brighton & Hove Albion, finishing on 98 points after a run of 14 wins. Merseyside club, Liverpool despite holding a 7-point lead over Man City at the start of the year had to settle for second-place with 97 points.  The points-haul by Jurgen Klopp managed side is the third highest total in Premier League history and the highest in English topflight history for a second-placed team. Astonishingly, the side who will feature in the Champions League in exactly a week time against Spurs, lost only one league match all season coincidentally to the champions.– Man City.  Considering the competition that exist among the top six clubs which has Manchester United Chelsea and Arsenal also as potential league champions, the third and fourth place finish for Champions League was quite interesting and at the end of the day, it was Chelsea, despite the huge maligning of Italian gaffer, Maurizio Sarri, that wriggled their way to secure ticket to world’s most prestigious club competition.  The Blues, re- markably, dislodged Mauriccio Pochettino’ s Spurs from third leaving Arsenal and Manchester United, obviously, the most disappointing club to contend with Europ a   League second- tier football next season. Huddersfield Town, Fulham and Cardiff were relegated at the end of the season which saw Liverpool defender Virgil van Dijk named league’s player of the season.  The hugely-effective Dutch clichéd the crown at the expense of teammates Sadio Mane and Mohamed Salah, Raheem Sterling, Bernardo Silva and Sergio Aguero all of Man City and Chelsea’s, Eden Hazard. Also the Reds duo of Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane alongside Peirre-Emerick Aubameyang of Arsenal shred the golden boot topscorer award each netting 21 goals.  Liverpool’s heartbreak was also consoled by the best goalkeeper award for their Brazilian goaltender Alison Becker who recorded 21 clean sheets.