Idara Bassey is an alumnus of Madonna University, Enugu. She was called to Bar on 15th December, 2015. In this encounter with JOHN CHIKEZIE, she shares her foray into the noble profession   Background My name is Idara Bassey, I hailed from Ikono Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. I had my primary school education at Christ the King Nursery and Primary School, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. I also attended Notre Dame Girls’ Secondary School, Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom State for my Secondary School education. I hold a Bachelor of Laws degree (LL.B) from Madonna University. I proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, Enugu Campus, where I was called to the Nigerian Bar on 15th December, 2015. I am also a graduate member of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria (ICSAN). My areas of professional competence and practice interests include Banking and Financial law, Corporate Governance, Commercial Law and Humanitarian Law. I am a member of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).  Why Law? I opted for the legal profession out of my desire to be a problem solver in the world. I have always envisaged that true success is identifying a need and propelling solutions to solve that need. In law, we are endlessly presented with legal issues which we must confront, address and execute the plans. I opted for the profession as a voice to be heard. The profession provides the medium through which I can voice out against the ills happening in the society. The legal profession enables me to see through the lenses of the law and the oppression that is being carried out in the society especially against women and children. In pursuit of this, in 2018, together with like-minded persons, we incorporated a Non-Governmental Organization named Star Advocacy for African Women and Children (S.A.F.A.W.A.C). I am the Executive Director (Operations). I am responsible for the day-to-day operation of the organization, which includes managing committees and staff as well as developing, planning and executing business plans in collaboration with the board.  How has the journey been so far since your call to Bar, any positive development or achievement? My journey so far in the legal profession has been a blessing even with its challenges. It’s been an interesting experience to be able to help people find solutions to their legal issues especially in the commercial world. My most exciting achievement was a project I embarked on during my Youth Service Programme in Imo State. I started a project where I was able to provide free legal services to indigent inmates who could not afford any. I also provided the inmates with relief materials. As a result of this movement, I was ably recognized by the Prison Controller Imo State Command and also the Rotary Club, Imo State for my contribution to the society. What kept me going against all odds is my pursuit of purpose, I have a mental image of what I want to achieve, so, daily I thrive and direct all my efforts towards my goals.   What do you love doing aside law practice? I love photography, although I don’t allow people see my work (chuckles). I explore the world better through my camera lenses; it opens up my eyes and mind. It relaxes me after a stressful day. What reform do you hope to see in the Nigerian Law School and law faculties of universities? In the university, students are taught substantive law. While in the law school, procedural/adjectival law is being taught. So, making the transition after five years in the university, and one year in law school to reality is not as seamless as it should be. In my opinion, the law school should be about helping students by bringing in current and practicing practitioners to assist them in making that almost seamless transition from theory to practical because the courses that the students are being taught in the law school will also be of practice in the workplace. Therefore, I think current practitioners who have succeeded in practice and who have a passion for teaching should be brought in to help the students. I would also suggest that the years spent in the university should be reduced to three years, as obtained in England. I would also advocate a two-year study plan for the law school since lawyers require more studying and reading after being qualified.  What is your take on the Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)? So far, the ADR has been effective taking cognizance of the clogs experienced with litigation which has led to a greater awareness of the advantages of ADR mechanisms among business associates, investors and legal practitioners. Most contracts today contain ADR clauses or arbitration clauses. The courts now refer parties to dispute to the multi-door Court-House attached to the courts to explore settlement of their dispute. Alternative Dispute Resolution saves cost and time; it is more flexible, less formal and above all, secures a confidential nature of the process. The High Court of Lagos State (Civil Procedure) Rules 2019 has achieved a milestone. Under the new rules, no civil litigation shall henceforth be initiated at the Lagos High Courts without attempts at an out-of-court settlement through the platforms of Alternative Dispute Resolution process. By these reforms, Lagos State has joined other international jurisdictions which always attempts amicable resolution of disputes, a pre-condition to initiating lawsuits.  What do you envision for yourself? My future ambition is to distinguish myself in the legal profession by being admitted into the “Inner Bar” and be conferred with the prestigious rank of a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN).