It is not in doubt that Nigeria is richly endowed with intellectuals who understand deeply, the array of challenges hindering the nation’s growth. Most people on the street, even the uneducated are also not oblivious of the fact that something is fundamentally wrong with our leadership style and governance system in the country. One particular issue of mention is the attitude of elected officials in Nigeria’s democracy who soon after assuming power, begin to see themselves as emperors. Aside this, they assemble mostly, cronies and praise singers as aides and support staff with often no positive contribution to make for the government to function effectively. Worst still, is the blatant abuse of office through perpetration of massive corruption which leaves the vast majority of the public in perpetual suffering. It is painful also that hardly are anyone among the elite class who constitute a larger part of the leadership numbers told the truth in the face. Participants drawn from across development partners, members of the diplomatic corps, and senior government officials were obviously intrigued by the candid and oratory delivery of various speakers at an induction organised by the Nigerian Governors Forumn (NGF) in the presidential villa, Abuja for returning and newly elected governors from the 36 States of the Federation. Among the speakers who gave inspiring lectures to the governors on what task lie ahead as they prepare to take the oath of office to pilot the ship of state, are Nigeria’s foremost motivational speakers, Ibukun Awoshika and the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese Mathew Hasan Kukah. Inside the main bole of the Presidential Villa Conference Center, the governors and other guest sat patiently to listen to refreshal tips on the tendencies of some state executives who chose to abuse office once inaugurated, cutting away from the electorates. Awoshika took the shine of the event when she mounted the podium. The boldness and frankness of this woman who also serves as chairman of a big bank in the country was amazing to the guests. I could only see a bitter truth being told to the leaders. For more than fifteen minutes, there was palpable silence in the hall as she spoke. First, the woman orator reminded the governors that they remained a major point of contact to every citizen of Nigeria, one of the reasons why as leaders they must continue to remain true to themselves in offering genuine service to the people. It is only by doing so that the governors can earn the people’s trust. When there is such trust, the citizens will be willing to pay taxes which are key to infrastructural development. One other thing Awoshika told the governors was the fact that posterity would judge them. The life you live while in the office determines the kind of respect you get from the people after office. Unfortunately, most of these people come into office with no clear vision. This is where the problem is. According to Awoshika however, for Nigeria to truly become great, the integrity and intellectual capacity of the very leaders who serve as a link between the center and those at the grass root is critical for nation building. Another essential advice to the governors is the belief that occupying a public office in Nigeria is first to satisfy self-pleasure, ones’ immediate family members and friends without conscience. It is true that some serving governors in the current dispensation have turned their states into private enterprises. They do this brazenly and get away with it because of constitutional immunity which they enjoy while in office and unfortunately, dont get to face the law after serving the term in office. Listening to these sincere words from a woman is one thing; putting them to practice is another. But Awoshika did not leave the stage without resounding applause and a standing ovation from the large number of dignitaries who included Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. In the views of Bishop Kukah, both the returning and newly elected governors yet to be sworn-in need to read the autobiographies of famous world leaders who were able to achieve much for their people. It was interesting when he asked the governors-elect this rhetorical question. ”What (book) are you reading now? As far as Bishop is concerned, all of these state chief executives must focus on the beat and in the worst case scenario, read great biographies of Mandela, Lee Kwan Yu, Gandhi and the rest. The Clergy also suggested two books which he insist will help them navigate through some of the difficult challenges of governance in the next four years. Among them is ’The rebels who brought Churchill to power and saved England, ’The jungle grows back’ and ’The end of power.’ The content of these books would of course help them to understand that elections alone are not enough in a democracy. It would also assist them to know that infrastructure is not just about building railways and highways. In a democracy, leaders must be seen to investing in people. They must talk to the hearts of the people. One sad fact revealed by Bishop Kukah is that in today’s Nigeria, there are people who are not in office, but they are in power and there are people who are in office but are not in power. Looking at the faces of the governors in the hall, it was not difficult to guess that majority of them are young men, probably in the late 40s or 50s. These are leaders who should not lack the courage to take decisions. Ordinarily, as young people, they should also have an idea of how the world is organised and therefore seize the opportunity to make a difference. Whether they make any meaning of the two-day training and induction depends on the genuiness of their interest to really serve.  Aso Rock guests of the week President Muhammadu Buhari is currently out of the country, precisely in London, United Kindom (UK) on a private visit. The seat of power, Aso Rock Presidential Villa, although not officially, has been under the leadership of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Many people had thought and expressed concern too that as usual, Buhari would have transmitted letters to the National Assembly confering an Acting role on his Vice for the ten days he has spent in the UK. This not withstanding, Osinbajo has played host to a number of guests within the week. Governance must go on. On Tuesday, he received a delegation from Total Group, led by its Chairman/CEO, Mr. Patrick Pouyanne. It was during this occasion that Osinbajo renewed gothe vernment’s commitment to steady electricity supply, taking advantage of other renewable energy sources. A delegation from the African Court of Human and Peoples’ Rights led by its President, Justice Sylvan Ore also held a closed-door meeting with the Vice President at the presidential villa. While the invention for governors lasted inside the villa, a few of them left to hold private meetings with Osinbajo. Among them are those of Kebbi, Enugu and Delta State. Very unusual, members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Thursday, held a meeting beginning at 4:00 pm and not 11:00 am, a session which lasted into the wee hours of the day. It was president by the Vice President. Senate President Bukola Saraki has summoned an emergency meeting of leaders of both chambers of the national assembly. Bamikole Omisore, an aide of the senate president, also tweeted about the meeting, saying the lawmakers would also meet with Mahmood Yakubu, chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “NASS leadership… In “News” Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, yesterday said his administration was embarking on investing in leadership training of workers to reduce costly recruitment expenses. He charged civil servants in the state to justify the government’s investments on them by working to tackle challenges confronting the more than 22 million residents of… In “News” Being the text of a paper presented by former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu at University of Nigeria, Nsukka on Friday, May 12, 2017   I consider my being here today a rare privilege. This is my second coming in less than three years. It shows the… In “Politics”