It is no longer news that Nollywood actress, Tonto Dikeh, has been in the news for the past few days following another weighty session of ranting over her crashed marriage with Olakunle Churchill.
In the new claims, she not only reiterated allegations that her ex-husband is an internet fraudster, which she claimed she only found out shortly after giving birth to her son, she added that Churchill’s father was just a gardener to former President Obasanjo.
In a separate interview with Daddy Freeze, himself a controversial media personality, the Damage actress alleged that the father of her son could not last one minute during sexual intercourse.
“Churchill has a sexual problem. He can’t stay inside a woman for more than 40 seconds, she said of the businessman.
With the drama ever unfolding, Tonto, who has been missing from the movies yet always in the news on account of the unending drama over her personal life, has attacked actor, IK Ogbonna and also threatened Yoruba actress, Funke Adesiyan.
In a message posted on his Instastory, IK Ogbonna had advised Tonto Dikeh to consider her son before releasing information to the public, to which Tonto reacted by warning him to keep her son’s name out of his mouth if he doesn’t want his secrets revealed.
Aside IK Ogboona, Tonto also threatened to inflict physical injury on Nollywood actress, Funke Adesiyan, for commenting on her controversial expose about her ex-husband.
In a post on Instagram, Adesiyan had written: “Some partners are toxic partners. Their toxicity will destroy you, your core and essence. May God not let us fall victims to “oloriburuku” partners. Amen. #disgracetowomanhood. Don’t know why it’s so difficult for her moving on!”
Although the actress didn’t mention a name, the Rivers State-born actress responded in her characteristically-fierce manner. Writing: “Funke, please say this to my face when you see me. Keep up this same energy too! I will break your mouth I promise. Don’t sub if you ain’t bold enough to tag me!
On his part, however, Churchill, has kept mum in the midst of it all as at the time of going to press. He only posted a picture on Instagram on Thursday in which he is gracefully clad in a Aso Oke ensemble with the caption: “Graceful. Am thankful”.
The post, in the perspective of the last round of drama by his ex-wife, has been liked by a number of celebs including Jaywon, Terry G, Ruggedman, IK Ogbonna, Yomi Casual at the last count.