Policemen attached to the Ejigbo Divisional Headquarters, Lagos have arrested two suspected pipeline vandals.
The suspects were apprehended at Oboye Street in Ejigbo area, where they reportedly vandalised the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) pipelines.
The two suspects have been detained at the Ejigbo Police Station where they were said to be undergoing interrogation.
The team led by Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Olabisi Okuwobi, who alerted other relevant agencies to prevent fire outbreak at the point where the pipelines were vandalised.
It was learnt that relevant agencies at the scene included the Lagos State Fire Service, Neighbourhood Watch, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), officers of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and the technical crew from the NNPC.
Some of the equipment used by the vandals were recovered by the police as exhibits.
It was also learnt that the incident caused panic in Ejigbo area after vandals reportedly breached the NNPC pipelines, left it open after they had loaded fuel into about 15 tankers and escaped.
The fuel was flowing on the road and spreading to other streets in the area.
According to some residents, the vandals invaded the place with men in soldiers’ uniform, who gave the bandits cover to break the pipes and siphon petroleum products.
The residents added that the vandals stormed the place about 1a.m. with trucks and some equipment, damaged the pipes and started loading petroleum products into waiting tankers till about 4a.m. when information got to the police.
One of the residents, who gave his name as Yahaya, said by the time the police moved in, they escaped and abandoned some of their equipment.
According to him, it appeared that the operation was organised in such a way that it seemed to be a conspiracy between some residents and the vandals on one hand and the NNPC and the vandals on the other.
It was also learnt that the area had been barricaded with rope by members of the NNPC technical crew who tried to control the flow of the products.
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, confirmed the arrest of two suspected vandals.
He said the suspects were questioned because they were not the main people but just agents of the syndicate.
According to him, the suspects are helping police to get the main people behind the crime.