With the reports that about 5,000 containers belonging to importers and manufacturers have been detained at the ports on the orders of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has berated the Service for undermining government’s ease of doing business policy. Taiwo Hassan writes  Already, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI has tipped the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) as one of the biggest institutional challenges facing the business community today following its inability to fully subscribe to the Federal Government’s executive orders, which focused on promoting ease of doing business in the country.
Generally, importers and manufacturers have been facing bottlenecks with the customs over its high handiness in handling goods that are meant for production in the country.
Particularly, the collision between the manufacturers and the NCS, in one way, has affected the growth and development of the country’s economy, thereby bringing about inflation.
Indeed, manufacturers have warned that unless there are improvements in port clearing system, it will continue to lay-off workers because of the challenges they are facing in clearing imported raw material.
To them, customs’ high handiness is responsible for the large consignments of raw materials currently stocked at the ports with many of production lines lying idle.
These challenges have prompted the LCCI as part of its advocacy mission to continue to intervene in the matter by urging the hierarchy of the NCS to soft pedal on its anti-policy activities, which is grounding smooth trade facilitation. Manufacturer’s tales
Speaking in an interview with New Telegraph in Lagos, the Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, May & Baker Nigeria Plc, Nnamdi Okafor, explained that the traffic congestion to and within Lagos ports was of concern to every manufacturer operating in the country, saying it was stifling them.
He said that improved port infrastructure was critical to prompt availability of imported raw materials meant for production, adding that contrary to this, manufacturers would have no order choice than to relieve workers manning production lines of their duties.
Okafor explained that challenges bordering on delay of import/export processes, heavy human and vehicular congestion to and within the ports, difficulty in gaining access to the ports due to bad roads and security concerns were stalling production capacity.
According to him, the challenge in the clearing process is making some firms incur huge demurrage, increased transportation costs and also not accessing materials on time to ensure continuity of production. LCCI position on new circular
However, the chamber warned NCS that its recent circular deploying a ‘strike force’ to all ports with the powers to intercept and effect seizures of cargo was a negation of the presidential executive order on streamlining of ports processes in the country.
LCCI Director-General, Muda Yusuf, said in Lagos, that the new strike force would undermine the ease of doing business policy of the current administration.
According to him, the new circular on the position of the strike force is detrimental to investment inflow and would further complicate the already difficult cargo clearing process being experienced at the ports by users.
His words: “The attention of LCCI has been drawn to the circular issued by the Customs Headquarters, deploying the ‘strike force’ to all ports with the powers to intercept and effect seizures of cargo. This move by NCS will be detrimental to investment, it will further complicate the already difficult cargo clearing process, would undermine the ease of doing business policy of the Buhari administration and a negation of the Presidential Executive Order on the streamlining of ports processes.” Economic implications
While speaking on some of the implications and consequences of the new circular, Yusuf said it was a duplication of functions of the customs resident officers at the ports, which have statutory responsibilities to examine and release cargoes to importers.
Particularly, he noted that this move would slowdown the cargo clearing process as it amounts to creation of another layer of authority to intercept and seize cargoes that have been duly released by all agencies involved in the examination of the cargoes.
He added that these agencies included Resident Customs Officers of the Command, NDLEA, DSS, Ports Police, Nigeria Immigration Service, NPA, NIMASA and Port Health.
The chamber’s director-general also explained that the directive confered vast discretionary powers on the strike force, which makes the cargo clearing process vulnerable to arbitrariness and coercion which could undermine the integrity and credibility of the process.
He said: “The deployment of the strike force to the ports suggests a distrust and lack of confidence in the resident customs officers who were deployed to the various commands by the Comptroller-General (CG) of Customs in the first place. The appropriate thing to do in this circumstance is for the CG to replace these officers with trusted ones rather super impose another set of customs operatives on the system. This new deployment would make the entire process chaotic, cumbersome, costly and inefficient. It could also create an additional credibility problem.” 5,000 containers docked
Reports revealed that some importers and manufacturers would lose no fewer than 5,000 containers to NCS before the end of the year.
The affected containers are those trapped for over four months at the ports because of the discrepancies and fraud discovered by the service.
The service had classified them as third party containers having discovered that the information provided in the clearing documents were not the same with the names of importers.
The discovery led to detention of the containers at the instance of Customs Comptroller General, Col Hameed Ali, in January, 2019, who directed that the consignments must leave the ports.
He directed all area controllers to suspend the release of any cargoe not with discrepancies in their documentation. PEBEC’s concern
Worried by the volume of overtime containers littering the ports, the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Committee (PEBEC) said at a closed door meeting in Lagos that it may soon resume auctioning of the overtime cargoes littering Lagos ports.
It was also gathered that Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade and investment, Ms. Jumoke Oduwole, is the coordinator of the committee.
Cargoes become overtime when they are not cleared within the statutory period of 28 days. Customs’ 25% penalty
Before the latest decision by PEBEC, Customs has slammed a penalty of 25 per cent duty on the third party containers at Lagos and Tincan Island ports.
The penalty was issued after intense pressure among the customs agents and Council for Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) that the containers should be released.
Customs had complained that customs agents had been clearing goods with Form M, Bill of Laden and Pre- Arrival Assessment Report (PAAR), which carry different names from that of the consignees. Last line
The LCCI maintained that inadequacies in the NCS are creating overlapping responsibilities and authorities which are further muddling the already arduous cargo clearing process by fueling risks in manufacturing activities.