 The long awaited Kano State Emir’s Appointment and Deposition Amendment Law, 2019 was, yesterday, assented to by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. The signing of the bill took place at the 136th state council meeting, before the Speaker of the State Assembly and other Principal Officers of the House. The bill, which was passed earlier in the day by the State House of Assembly, made provision for the creation of four new emirate councils in Kano, namely, Gaya, Rano, Karaye and Bichi. With Kano, the state now has five Emirates. The new law came into existence with the intention of crippling the traditional influence of Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, who is being probed by the state government over alleged financial misconduct. Governor Ganduje and Emir Sanusi are not best of friends. Before signing the Bill into law, Ganduje said: “Traditional institution will now go closer to the people in all nooks and crannies of the state. We are about to make history today, and in the Holy Month of Ramadan.” He explained that with the expansion of the Emirate Councils and importance attached to the institution alongside preserving the cultural heritage, there was a need to bring forth the all-important institution to serve people better. According to him, all the necessary requirements for the immediate take-off of the new Councils would be done with dispatch. “Kingmakers will be known very soon. So also all other process and procedures will be completed for appointing respective Emirs, issuing them with appointment letters up to the coronation stage,” Ganduje said. He thanked the state assembly for the “historic work done”, emphasizing that Kano would now have sustained development in all aspects of life in the state. While acknowledging the role traditional institution plays in the security of the larger society, he also noted that: “In the areas of education, health, environment, traditional institution is indeed partner in progress. With this development, therefore, all hands will be on deck to take Kano to the next level.” Earlier, in his remarks, during the official presentation of the Bill to the governor, Speaker of the State Assembly, Rt. Hon. Kabiru Alasan Rurum, reminded all of the traditional status of the three out of the four newly created Emirate Councils. He said Gaya, Karaye and Rano Councils were in existence before, for over 100 years, and along the line, “…many things happened when they all ceased to exist.” Other Bills that were signed alongside the Emirate Councils Bill into Law are Kano State Public Health Bill of 2019, Kano State Water and Sanitation Sector Reform Bill of 2019, Kano State Pension Rights for Speaker and Deputy Speaker Bill of 2019 and Kano State College of Health, Science and Technology, among others. Seven Bills were assented to by the governor. The signing of the bill came despite series of interventions by some prominent individuals to stop Ganduje from creating four new emirate councils. The bill emanated from a petition filed before the House by Ibrahim Salisu Chambers, which sought for the decentralization of the Emirate Council and the needs for the creation of four additional First Class Emirs in the state. According to the petition, the establishment of the above emirate councils will bring more advantages for development in the state. Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano state, has given assent to the bill passed by the Kano house of assembly on breaking up the emirate in the state. Kano now has five emirates: Kano, Rano, Gaya, Karaye and Bichi, but the domain of Muhammadu Sanusi, the emir of Kano, has been… In “News” For the umpteenth time, Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and some top prominent sons of Kano have waded into the feud between Kano State Governor, Umar Abdullahi Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, which has since taken a more dangerous dimension.   Dangote’s wading into the… In “News” ...as Osinbajo, ex-presidents intervene     The Kano State House of Assembly, yesterday, stopped the investigation on the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, over allegations of misappropriation of N6 billion belonging to Kano Emirate Council. The Assembly’s decision to end the investigation followed a letter from the state… In “News”