Police in Lagos yesterday announced that they had arrested 20 suspected traffic armed robbers and cultists. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, said 10 among the suspects were traffic robbers, while the other 10 were arrested for cultism. He said: “Ten of the cultists were arrested during a college matriculation ceremony. Firearms were recovered from them. The Surveillance Patrol Strategy introduced by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, targeted towards tackling the menace of traffic robbery in the state recorded another significant achievement with the arrest of over 10 traffic robbery suspects at the weekend. Arms and ammunition were also recovered from the suspects.” Elkana explained that on May 24, surveillance patrol team from Ketu Police Station foiled a robbery attempt at Kosofe bus stop. He said that the leader of the gang, popularly known as Gabazine, and two other members of the gang were arrested. He added: “One Samsung phone, snatched from a victim was recovered and handed over to the owner. Also, on May 25, the same surveillance team on undercover operation at the same spot arrested two traffic robbery suspects attempting to rob some unsuspecting road user. “Two jack knives and a toy pistol were recovered. On the same date, surveillance patrol team deployed to Ketu bus stop arrested two traffic robbery suspects. One pistol, with three live ammunition and a jack knife were also recovered from them.” Elkana added that on May 21, Sabo Police Station received a distress call that a group of armed hoodlums, suspected to be cultists, were sighted at Yaba College of Technology, during the college matriculation ceremony. He said: “Teams of policemen from Sabo Police Station and Tactical Units of the command were promptly drafted to the scene to reinforce the campus patrol team. Two suspects were arrested. One Baretta pistol, with four live ammunition, and three expended ammunition were recovered from the suspects. Investigation is ongoing and the suspects will be charged to court.”