National Association of Nigeria Students, (NANS) and the National Association of Ondo State Students (NAOSS) yesterday clashed over hike in school fees of the State owned tertiary institutions.  While the NANS President, Mr. Danielson Bamidele Akpan said Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu must reverse the increase in the school fees of tertiary institutions owned by the state government, the NAOSS President, Mr. Emmanuel Akeredolu said the National body of the students’ union was sponsored to cause crisis in the state.  Akpan, who had said Akeredolu was out to destroy the education sector of the state, insisted that students were set to slug it with the governor over his stance on the tuition of the state owned universities. He said: “We have come to the point whereby we will not allow any government to begin to allow to run any state especially the part of it that affects us directly in the manner that pleases he or she.  “That is the state we have found ourselves in Ondo State where a governor who was elected to sustain the norm, to sustain the democratic principles of the state, one that has been in existence of long before he became governor, a solid and positive one at that. He should not only sustain it but improve on it. “Ondo State is known for producing best of the best when it comes to education in this country. It is the bedrock of the country when it comes to education.  “Since the return to democracy in 1999, Ondo State has been making education available for all from primary level to secondary level.  “Adefarati came, he initiated the free education policy, Agagu came, he sustained it. Mimiko spent two terms, he consolidated on it, but Akeredolu came and destroyed all of that. He didn’t stop at that, he went further by saying he will no longer pay WAEC fee for students of this state knowing full well that it does not cost the state anything to take care of that annually.  “If it did not cost the three predecessors that came before him anything then he should not complain. Akpan, who said Akeredolu walked them out of the government house during a meeting with him on how to resolve the issue maintained that the governor exhibited highest level of arrogance. He, however, gave Akeredolu a few hours ultimatum to reverse tuition in all tertiary institutions in the state or face the wrath of students across the country.  “We have used all channels to address this matter but it has proven abortive. The governor has been showing carelessness and insensitivity.   “After meeting with the governor on the need to address the issue, he displayed the highest level of arrogance by telling us to go to hell, that his decision is final and that he is not going to reduce the school fees. “The governor threatened us that he is ready to order the security men to flush us out if we dare protest. Whereas, peaceful protest is our right; it is the last resort in negotiations.