The need to reclaim the nation’s fading history appears more compelling now than ever before. EMMANUEL ONANI, who attended a recent exhibition, reports   It was Chinua Achebe, the inaugurator of the great tradition of the African Novel, who once said that: “A man who does not know where the rain began to beat him, cannot say where he dried his body”. It has been argued in some quarters that the dearth of historical materials largely accounted for some conflict situations besetting the nation. This school of thought insists that, were the citizenry, especially the young generation aware of the sacrifice made by founding fathers, to achieve independence – in the face of obvious differences – the bitterness that drives behaviour today, would have found no accommodation. In the midst of this growing quest for national unity and oneness, came an intervention from ANIZA Foundation, a project promoted by Novo Isioro, the Personal (official) Photographer to the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Inside Abuja reports that Aniza (with partnership from the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture,and the Federal Capital Territory Administration), aims to reconfigure Nigeria’s history, from margin to centre. It explores the vehicle of “Exhibition”, to recollect history of past great events, activities, as well as personalities that made positive impacts in the course of nation building. It was no surprise when, on May 1 (Workers’ Day), Aniza “dominated” the FCT Exhibition Pavilion, with history materials, drama presentation, and other activities. Displayed in the mobile gallery, were pictures of independence, comradeship, and other great events. As expected, students and young people drawn from across the country were present at the event, to reconnect with the glorious past. Speaking on what motivated the project, Isioro said: “ANIZA came about at a time when hate speeches were on the rise; it was raging everywhere. And, young people were the instrument for these activities and speeches. “So, we got thinking on what we could do as individuals, to put an end to this ugly and dangerous trend. I’m a photographer/visual artist, and anything that has to do with image making, I’m an expert in it. “So, I told myself: how can we use pictures to tell young people that, we had a country wherein there was no difference in tribes or religions. We had one nation called Nigeria, and it did not matter wherever we came from; we are one. “We have achieved so much with our exhibition. We demonstrated that we achieved so much when we worked together as one true indivisible entity, after independence. We thought that, if we taught young people (this history), it will definitely advance their knowledge of history, with the ultimate goal of increasing their level of patriotism to the nation. “As a people, when you know where you are coming from, you will automatically know where you are going to. So, we thought that if we exposed them to these historical facts and materials, it will help to curb the activities of hate speech, even as they won’t allow themselves to be used for acts that are injurious to national unity and cohesion because the ultimate goal of these people (sponsors of hate speech) that use young people, is selfish agenda. So, we thought we should let the young people know this.” She further identified the removal (it may have been reinstated) of history from the school ‘curriculum, as another driving force. Hear her: “Second reason was because, history was removed from our curriculum, and that was really a matter of concern for me, personally. Why will history be taken away from our curriculum? Since we are used to talking in Nigeria, ANIZA reasoned that, taking this exhibition to schools (form clubs and associations), we would have achieved the ultimate goal of exposing these pupils and students to our very rich history. “Though, history may have been restored to our curriculum, it is still not at all levels. So , we thought this intervention will help a great deal. ANIZA receives schools from all over the country. “Last October, when Vice President Yemi Osinbajo inaugurated ANIZA, we brought in about 26 schools from 26 states of the country, including Zamfara and Sokoto. We thought that we could do this often, not just Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which is the base of ANIZA. “This platform is a public/ private partnership. The Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, and the FCT Administration, are our partners. So, we just thought that, if we could take these whole activities to schools, it will encourage students to come there, and see those rich historical events and all. That way, they won’t be totally lost about the fact that they don’t understand their history. “It was shocking to me that, in one of the schools we visited, after putting up these pictures, students in the 20s were asking who was/is (Gen.) Yakubu Gowon. This whole project is about two years now but it was inaugurated a year ago. It was inaugurated on October 1, 2018.” On how much impact the project has made, since its inauguration by the VP last October, the visual artist, said: ‘The impact has been massive. Like I said, it’s supposed to be every year. But, you get students asking, ‘can we have this every other time?’. So, we thought we could do it twice a year. This May 1 exhibition was done out of popular demand basically from schools and young ones. “We thought that we could make it a Workers’ Day thing, because the day is a collective one. We were at Eagle Square, and we saw people from all walks of life, and religions come together to celebrate their workmanship”. Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Laolu Akande, was among the dignitaries that witnessed the exhibition.