Last week’s announcement by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, that the apex bank is planning to limit deposit money banks’ (DMBs) access to government securities as part of efforts to redirect their lending focus to the private sector, continues to spark debates. Tony Chukwunyem writes  In a report issued in October 2017, one of world’s leading credit rating agencies, Fitch Ratings, had highlighted the fact that Nigerian banks have been heavily investing in government securities such as Treasury Bills(T-bills) and bonds since the second half of 2016 (2H16), thereby helping them to improve interest income and maintain margins.  According to the rating agency, Nigerian banks averaged a 7.5per cent margin on T-bills yields in the first half of 2017 (1H17). It noted that apart from the fact that T-bill yields ranked higher than savings deposit rates: “High yields on T-Bills are part of the Nigerian authorities’ attempts to control inflation and manage demand for foreign currency.  “By providing a remunerative, relatively low-risk, naira-denominated investment (interest payments are tax-free), they (CBN) hope to encourage naira retention and dampen demand for US dollars,” Fitch added.    Substantial income  In fact, an analysis of the nation’s Tier 1 banks’- FBN Holdings, UBA, Guaranty Trust Bank, Access and Zenith- 2017 9 months results, showed that they raked in combined earnings of about N451.8 billion from treasury bills and government bonds, compared to N270 billion earned same period in 2016. Furthermore, following the CBN’s publication of its first quarter 2018 treasury bills issuance programme in early January last year, which indicated that the regulator was slowing down on T-bill issuance as part of the Federal Government’s strategy to reduce the country’s indebtedness, Fitch issued a report, predicting that the development could hurt banks’ profits.  Specifically, the rating agency stated: “We expect falling T-bill yields and lower issuance to put pressure on Nigerian banks’ profitability in 2018. The CBN’s latest issuance schedule shows N1.1trillion of rollovers in first quarter of 2018 against N1.3trillion of maturing bills. In 2017, rollovers fully covered maturing bills.  “Performance metrics at all banks will be affected by weak demand for lending, falling T-bill yields, lower foreign-currency translation gains and rising loan impairment charges, but the largest banks are best placed to withstand these challenges,” the agency said.  Banks defy forecast However, this prediction did not come to pass because 2018 full year financial statements released by the lenders showed that they continued to invest heavily in government securities. For instance, an analysis of the financial statements indicates that the five tier 1 banks invested a total of N4.61 trillion in treasury bills and FGN bonds, among others in 2018. Indeed, according to a Nairametrics report, one of the Tier 1 banks consistently made hefty trading income- “largely from treasury bills trading”- in the last few years rising from N20 billion in 2016 to over N60 billion in the 2017 financial year and to N80billion last year.  Equally, New Telegraph had last month reported that Q1 2019 results released by three banks-Access Bank, Zenith Bank and Guaranty Trust Bank- showed that their total investment securities for the period increased to N2.80trllion from N2.54trillion in the first quarter of 2018.  Specifically, Access Bank’s investment securities rose by 53.93 per cent to N771.31billion in the first quarter of this year from N501.07billon in the same period last year. Also, Guaranty Trust Bank’s investment securities increased by 6 per cent to N675.56 billion in the first quarter of 2019 from N637.33billion in the same period of the previous year.  Zenith Bank, however, reported a marginal 3.85 per cent decline in investment securities to N1.35trillion in the first quarter of this year from N1.41trillion in the comparative period of 2018.   MPC members’ concern The banks’ heavy investment in treasury bills and bonds, especially given that credit to the critical real sector, was still nothing to write home about had, in fact, attracted the attention of some members of the CBN’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) during their meeting in March this year. For instance, in his personal statement at that meeting, one of the MPC members, Professor Adeola Adenikinju, stated: “The falling rate of total bank credit is a concern. The observed shift in bank balance sheet from loans and advances to fixed income assets is not a good omen to the real sector.” So, perhaps the announcement by the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, at the end of the MPC’s May meeting last Wednesday that the Committee had directed the Apex Bank to introduce measures to limit lenders’ investment in government securities as a way of getting them to lend to the real sector, might not have come as a complete surprise to industry watchers.  CBN’s stance The CBN Governor had argued that banks’ easy access to government securities leads to the crowding out of private sector lending, noting that this is not good for the economy.  He said: “In view of the abundant opportunities available to banks for unfettered access to government securities, which tends to crowd out private sector lending, the Committee called on the Bank (CBN) to provide a mechanism for limiting DMBs’ access to government securities so as to redirect banks’ lending focus to the private sector, noting that this would spur the much-needed growth in the economy. It called on the government to use all machinery at its disposal to increase tax revenue to enable the government to fund its budget adequately.”  Emefiele, who acknowledged that lenders have a required minimum number of treasury bills they must invest in so as to remain liquid, however, pointed out the DMBs have been focusing on buying government securities instead of focusing on providing financing facilities to the private sector. He said: “The truth is that yes, according to our own regulations, there is a particular minimum percentage of treasury bills or government securities that the banks must invest in, in order to remain liquid. But again, we have observed and unfortunately and increasingly so, that the banks, rather than even focusing on granting credit to the private sector, they tend to direct their focus mainly on buying government securities. The MPC has frowned on that and has directed the management of the CBN to put in place policies or regulations that would restrict the banks from unlimited access to government securities.” Besides, he stated: “It is important and expedient that the committee gives this directive to management because this country badly needs growth. For us to achieve growth, those whose primary responsibility that it is to provide credit, who act as intermediaries in providing credit and are called catalysts to credit and growth in the economy must be seen to perform that responsibility.” Stressing that the Banking watchdog would implement the directive of the MPC, the CBN Governor said it was regrettable that rather than perform their responsibility to the private sector -the engine of growth in the economy- banks are directing liquidity to other sectors of the economy.  Bankers fret Expectedly, Emefiele’s announcement has rattled the banking industry. While some stakeholders have said that the move was necessary to force the DMBs to lend to the real sector and grow the economy, bankers were generally worried that, if implemented, the policy would make it more difficult for lenders to sustain their profitability.  A source in a Tier 1 bank told New Telegraph that if the policy was enforced, banks would be forced to reevaluate their investment strategy.  “Banks have managed to remain profitable in recent years, despite the tough economy, due largely to their investment in treasury bills and bonds. So, they would definitely be impacted if CBN goes ahead with the implementation of the policy.  Similarly, commenting on the move, analysts at Nairametrics stated: “The implication of this is that, by dissuading banks from investing in treasury bills and other government securities, CBN is basically triggering less demand in its bills which could lower yields on T-bills. It means anyone looking to buy treasury bills should start to look forward to even low yields.”  Also, the Managing Director, Afrinvest Securities Limited, Mr. Ayodeji Ebo, was reported by a national daily as saying that banks would not welcome the policy because it would significantly impact their chances of making money.  He was quoted as saying: “So, it is going to be a difficult push for the central bank. The CBN needs to look for a more structural way to boost lending to the real sector. This looks like more of direct control. It is better to adopt moral suasion on this matter.”  He contended that the difficult operating environment was one of the key factors discouraging lending to the private sector.  However, the CBN move has received the support of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), which has over the years blamed banks’ heavy investments in treasury bills and other instruments for the difficulties the private sector faces in accessing credit.   Last line  But as a top banker, who did want to be identified pointed out last weekend, the banks’ investment in treasury bills and bonds has also helped to fund the Federal Government.  The bank official said: “I really would want to see how CBN would want to curb banks’ investment in treasury bills given that this has been helping to finance government activities. Besides, funding alone cannot solve the problems of the real sector as there are other issues such as lack of reliable power supply that have not yet been addressed.”