Some constituents of Ndokwa/Ukwuani Federal Constituency in Delta State have lodged an appeal against the dismissal of an alleged forgery suit against Hon. Ossai Nicholas Ossai by Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of a Federal High Court in Asaba. The notice of Appeal, which has seven grounds was filed by Uche Collins Osamezu, Kingsley Oge, Ifeanyi Okonji, Aghanenu Monday and Nkechi Odigidawu. In one of the grounds, the appellants said: “The learned trial judge erred in law when he held that the investigation report of the police, Exhibit D, cannot be equated to an indictment issues by a judicial commission of inquiry or an administrative panel of inquiry”. According to them, the trial court failed to appreciate that the definition of a report of administrative panel of inquiry also includes investigation report of the police, Exhibit D. In another ground of appeal, it was the appellants’ contention that, “The learned trial judge erred in Law when he held that “embezzlement and fraud” as used in Exhibit A INEC Form CF001 only contemplate financial malfeasance and not electoral misbehaviour or malfeasance”. They argued that the judge misinterpreted fraud to mean embezzlement and related same to financial malfeasance in his interpretation. They further argued that the judgement was against the weight of evidence as revealed in the affidavits evidence of the parties. Osamezu and others have dragged Hon. Ossai to the lower court over alleged forgery. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Inspector General of Police and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were joined as codefendants in the suit. In an affidavit in support of the suit deposed to by Ozamezu, it was averred that in his quest to win another term in the green chamber, Hon. Ossai lied on oath in his INEC form CF001 that he has never been indicted for fraud by a judicial commission of inquiry or any Administrative panel of inquiry. The deponent averred that the lawmaker intentionally withheld the information in respect of his arrest, investigation, indictment and arraignment for forging INEC result sheet during the 2011 NASS election.