The Minority Leader of Ogun State House of Assembly, Hon. Olawale Alausa, has dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the All Progressives Congress (APC). Alausa, representing Ijebu-Ode state constituency, announced his defection in a letter dated April 23, which was read during plenary in Abeokuta yesterday by the Speaker, Suraj Adekunbi. The defection dealt a huge blow to the opposition PDP and further depleted the party, which now has two lawmakers in the 26-member House. The members still in PDP include Oyenuga Adejuwon and Soyebo Mojeed, representing Ijebu-East and Sagamu II state constituencies respectively. Alausa said he took the decision to leave the opposition party after due consultations with his supporters and constituents. “I wish to notify your good office of my decision to join the All Progressives Congress after due consultations with my constituents,” the lawmaker stated in his defection letter. In his response, the Speaker, representing Yewa North I state constituency, welcome the defector to the APC and wished him well. “You are welcome to the next level,” Adekunbi said. New Telegraph reports that the APC now has 18 members in the House of Assembly while the Allied People’s Movement (APM) has three lawmakers. The African Democratic Congress (ADC) also has three members in the legislature whose tenure is expected to lapse in early June. …as Ogun Speaker rejects two lawmakers’ defection letters   A two-term member of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Bowale Solaja yesterday dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Solaja, representing Ijebu North I state constituency, is a political godson of a Senator representing… In “News” The All Progressives Congress (APC), again, suffered losses yesterday as seven of its federal and state legislators, and associates of Governors Ibikunle Amosun (Osun) and Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) dumped the ruling party. Amosun’s political associates in Ogun State, including his anointed governorship candidate for APC in the 2019 elections, Hon.… In “News” Defections in the country’s apex legislative chamber in the present dispensation have made both the ruling All Progressives Congress and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to lose some of its members, FELIX NWANERI reports   The framers of the Nigerian Constitution were not unmindful of the harm unguarded defection… In “Politics”