 Homicide detectives attached to the Enugu State Police Command have launched investigation into the death of a 400 Level student who reportedly drank two bottles of Sniper, a deadly insecticide. The deceased, Chukwuemeka Akachi, of the Department of English and Literary Studies, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), was alleged to have taken his life yesterday. Akachi was said to have gone into an uncompleted building to kill himself. The deceased committed suicide less than 24 hours after a man, Segun, mixed Sniper with his tea, in an attempt to kill himself. The incident occurred at Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. Segun attempted to kill himself after scoring 167 in his the Universal Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) conducted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). While drinking the mixture, Segun video recorded the act. He was later rushed to the hospital by his friends. But while Segun was still battling to live in the hospital, Akachi fell into coma and later died. Segun repeatedly talked about death on his twitter handle before carrying out the act, but Akachi went on his Facebook wall to leave a suicide note. The note states: “Forgive me. In case you are the one who found the body, I am really sorry. It had to be someone you know. I have chosen Jo Nketaih’s poem as my suicide note: ‘They said you came looking for me. I don’t drown. I was the water, where do atheists go when they die!’ Lol. Amen.” The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Ebere Amaraizu, said: “Police will investigate circumstances surrounding the suicide.” Sources claimed that when Akachi was discovered, he was already in coma. He was immediately taken to the UNN Federal Medical Centre. “Chukwuemeka was later referred to the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Ituku, Ozalla, Enugu. It was right there that doctor explained that he was dead,” said a source close to him. He was also alleged to have discussed on his Facebook wall that his mental health was on life support. Although he took out time to thank people that called to encourage him after he spoke about his mental health, he still went on yesterday to commit suicide.