The pathetic story of one Mrs. Mary Kulele, a 41-year-old woman from Akwanga LGA of Nasarawa State who was lynched by an irate mob in Lafia for “stealing a baby” as reported by the Saturday Sun of March 16, 2019 has unsettled my mind. When I remember that story with the picture of that beautiful woman being battered with heavy and rough clubs and finally laced with foliage, tyres and inflammable liquid and burnt on that sunny day of March, cascading and riveting in my mind, I weep for her and for my country. As reported, Mary (obviously a Christian) married one Amos Agu, who if he had not disclosed his nativity one would have taken him to be an Igbo as ‘Agu’ meaning tiger, is a common Igbo name. But he is a Maghile from Obi LGA of Nasarawa State. Mary, the only daughter of her parents, was pursuing postsecondary education when Amos befriended her and in the course of that relationship found her worthy for marriage and promptly proposed marriage to her. Mary, who told the irate mob her life story before they scourged and burnt her to death, stated that the day Amos proposed marriage to her was the finest moment of her life. After graduation from higher institution, the young lovebirds tied the nuptial knot and became husband and wife which marriage was consummated with great expectations especially the desire for children – being the ultimate blessings of marriage in Africa. Years passed and there were no children forthcoming as expected. The fact that Amos is the only male child of his parents made the case even more urgent and unbearable. Ten years passed and Mary did not conceive not to talk of giving birth even if it is stillbirth. Of course, family pressure piled on the young couple and as a result of these family pressures from husband’s family, Mary started noticing that her lovely husband’s attitude towards her started changing from cold indifference and hostility to her feelings to outright dislike and even rejection. It was not long before she was pushed away from her matrimonial home and forced to accept the status of divorcee even without any legal formalities except that she was taunted and pushed away with the tag “barren woman” boldly splashed on her person and neighbourhood. She accepted her fate with the hope that her husband with time may have a change of mind. The expected change of mind did not materialize when she was counselled to adopt a child. How would she go about this, she never knew. Perhaps, ignorant counsel urged her to steal a baby for adoption and paid dearly for it. She had gone to a hospital where she pretended to be public-spirited and concerned person, out to help young mothers who recently were delivered of babies and gained their trust to help care for them and cashing on that opportunity stole one of the babies and was caught hence the mob battered and burnt her to death. Not even her pathetic story rendered by way of a confession could save her as the lynch-party descended on her immediately she finished her story which was admission of guilt. Instant jungle justice was meted to her. No divine intervention by way of rescue by the police or supervening moral voice among the irate mob came her way. And so Mary perished simply because she desired a baby and went stealing it to “console her.” What concerns the unfortunate Mary with the troubles of Nigeria? A lot! Every human association, be it a club or country is formed for the pursuit of happiness of its members. Nigeria was supposedly formed for the pursuit of happiness of its members. But has it been so? Certainly not! A person is defined as a human being and by virtue of being a member of a family which is the smallest unit of human society is conferred with certain rights, duties and privileges. Society grew from family to clan and interminably so and finally leading to the formation of state to superintend a political community. The basic duties of any state are to afford every citizen security of his life and property which are secured by adherence to ‘Rule of law’. Second, the state organizes the society in such a way that individuals are afforded social services such as education, law, health and social services including adoption services to be accessed by couples who do not want to bear biological children or who are biologically incapable of doing so. If you trace the problems of Nigeria, they are not far off or inseparable from the well-spring of absence of rule of law which encompasses the provision of rules guiding the availability of social and legal services for the provision of adoption services for people who want to adopt children but couldn’t because the legal framework is not there to sustain that social and health services. It is the absence of this crucial legal framework for adoption service for barren women and infertile men that had predisposed the current situation whereby “baby factory” proliferate in Nigeria. Many young people (boys and girls) have been corruptly recruited by “baby factory” operators to produce babies for sale. And even poverty-stricken couples are daily reported in news media as having succumbed to this nefarious trade which go to establish the level of decay of Nigeria that parents can sell their biological child for any amount of money. If the adoption service is available in the states and local governments, there may be no need for illegal ‘baby factories’ and perhaps our Mary would have been spared the temptation of stealing a baby and being caught to suffer the harrowing death. As she confessed, “it was this excruciating experience (bareness) that force me into stealing a baby” because she felt, “she had no choice but to steal and raise a baby of her own to console” her. People argue whether Nigeria is a failed state or not. For me, the question is: whether the state has the capacity to secure the people, maintain essential services and keep people within its precinct happy. In Nigeria today, government has failed to secure the people against the activities of sundry criminals especially armed robbers, herdsmen, Boko Haram, terrorists, kidnappers, assassins, etc. The social services in terms of the education system, health system, law and order have all broken down to the dismay of citizens. So a state need not be like Somalia, Afghanistan, Libya, etc. to be accorded the status of a failed state. Inability of any state to provide essential services for which a state is formed such as rule of law capable of checking intolerable and widespread insecurity across the country and the breakdown of social services signpost a ‘failed state’ for me. Nigeria qualifies as a failed state. And, in any case, Nigeria devours its people. If it had just stopped at state failure, it would have been okay, but Nigeria devours its people daily by way of denial of essential services such as security of life and property. Life is about the pursuit of happiness but Nigeria does not allow its people to pursue the object of being happy.