Board Chairman of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), Muhammed Mahmood Abubakar, and his daughter, Yasmin, who were kidnapped on Monday afternoon, have regained their freedom. The UBEC boss and his daughter were said to have been released by their abductors yesterday barely 24 hours after their abduction.  This came as police yesterday arrested one person in connection with the abduction. A family source in Kaduna confirmed Abubakar’s release to journalists. “The UBEC chairman and his daughter were released about 1:30p.m. today (yesterday),” the source said.  However, contrary to speculations, the source claimed that no ransom was paid for the release of the former member of the Kaduna State House of Assembly and his daughter. But several sources in the state said that money was paid for the release of the UBEC boss and his daughter.  Abubakar was abducted alongside his daughter along the Kaduna-Abuja Highway, close to Katari, a village few kilometres from Zuba, on Monday while travelling from Kaduna to Abuja. His driver was shot dead as the kidnappers fired shots into the car to stop the vehicle. Many other travellers were also abducted along the same route on Monday, but nothing has been heard from them. Meanwhile, the police yesterday disclosed that one suspect had been arrested in connection with Abubakar’s abduction. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Yakubu Sabo, in a statement in Kaduna, confirmed the release of the former lawmaker and his daughter.  Sabo also confirmed the release of three persons abducted at Kajuru Castle in Kajuru Local Government Area of the state about two weeks ago which led to the death of two persons, Faye Mooney and Mathew Oguche. Sabo added that the release of the UBEC chairman and his daughter coincided with the visit of the Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu. “One suspect has been arrested by the police in connection with the incident and one AK47 rifle with 29 rounds of live ammunition was recovered in his possession. “The suspect, named Audu Ahmadu, is undergoing interrogation in police custody. Efforts are on course to apprehend the remaining fleeing suspects,” Sabo said.