On July 26 2016 when President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated the Abuja/Kaduna light rail, residents of the Federal Capital Territory celebrated it with unusual fanfare. However, two years later, the train service has become oversubscribed. CALEB ONWE reports   Many residents of Abuja had never seen a train before in real life. The commissioning of the train service was an opportunity for those going to Kaduna to have the experience of a smooth ride across the landscape.
Initially, passengers who scrambled for train tickets were people who just wanted to have a firsthand experience of a train ride. Others, apparently took the ride from Abuja to Kaduna to make a comparative analysis of the services.
For the first month of the operation, Abuja residents enjoyed a free train ride, courtesy of the FCT Administration that wanted the people to see the extent of government’s delivery of democratic dividends.
The test run of the new transportation system in the FCT came with such a fanfare that it remained a major topic of social discourse among different strata of the society for a long time.
However, after over two years and ten months of operations on Abuja -Kaduna route, the service demand had created both gains and pains.
Following an upsurge of passengers occasioned by the increasing insecurity on the major highways leading to Kaduna from Abuja the gains are swiftly producing pains.
Inside Abuja’s learnt that the upsurge is already putting pressure on the available coaches and some of the initial safety standards have become compromised. The tickets that were meant to be purchased by potential passengers on a first come, first served basis, have become an item reserved for the highest bidders.
The train coaches is said to have the capacity of carrying 4,000 passengers per day, and has already carried about 1.5 million in excess of its capacity. The Abuja/Kaduna train service may not be the best according to global standard, but it provides the needed alternative to commuters who can no longer take the risk of travelling by road.
Inside Abuja gathered that the upsurge of passengers has already increased over three -fold due to the unending kidnapping and killings of innocent citizens along Abuja- Kaduna highway. This has created serious hitches both to the operators and passengers.
Inside Abuja’s visit to Idu Train station recently revealed that while the upsurge in passenger traffic means more revenue for the government, it has brought a lot of pains to commuters and operators.
It was gathered that as tension continue to mount over the kidnappings, now, the average passenger struggle for the train tickets, as even very important personalities have resorted to the use of train to avoid the being kidnapped.
At the car park of the station, several vehicles with National Assembly specialised number plates were sighted, giving credence that the train services are now the safest route from Abuja to Kaduna.
Some of the train attendants who do not want their names in print said the train fares have remained stable for the last five months. They said the official fares are N1,300 for economy, N2,000 for second class, and N3,000 for executive coaches respectively.
Some of the passengers who wore long faces standing on the long queue, waiting to either purchase tickets or to check in were however, not happy that the ” VIPs” were being given preferential services.
A passenger, Mohammed Idris, who was bitter that he had been on queue for the purpose of purchasing tickets for his Saturday trip, noted that he had spent several hours without success.
Idris stated that ticket racketeering has become one of the abnormalies that must be checked by relevant authorities, if the gains of the Abuja Rail mass Transit would be sustained.
“It is strange that you will come with your money to buy tickets here but will not get them. But once senior government officials or notable politicians appear, the tickets are released “.
A female passenger, who declined to mention her name, expressed concerns about the rather porous security situation at the train stations. She was of the opinion that security agents should be very proactive to ensure that terrorists do not cash in on the situation.
Even though the tickets are available for sales, intending passengers pass through frustrating conditions that are capable of discouraging them from staying through to purchase it.
The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC ) officials, who do not want their names mentioned, confirmed that the tickets are available, but sometimes seem to be difficult to get because top government officials and politicians who need the tickets will just make a call and buy the tickets in bulk.
On the alternative route to Kaduna from Abuja, a driver who simply identified himself as Abdallah, noted that the other road that travellers could take through Keffi Nasarawa State, and pass through Kafanchan is even more dangerous.
He explained that apart from the fact that the road is rough and longer in distance, armed robbers and other criminals are more rampant there, coupled with less presence of security agencies.
Some of the commuters also expressed concern that security of the train services could be compromised, except that proactive measures were adopted.
Inside Abuja’s investigation also showed that though passengers’ patronage had increased as a safer route to Kaduna from Abuja, there are still many people who take the risk of travelling by roads despite the inherent dangers.
Inside Abuja’s visit to Utako central motor park revealed that several vehicles still come to scout for Kaduna passengers. And going by the number of Kaduna bound passengers around the loading pool, there was no signal that people had completely abandoned Abuja Kaduna road for kidnappers.
A driver, Mr. Longinus Ezema, who works for one of the Transportation companies in the motor park, said they cannot abandon their route because of criminal activities.
Ezema noted that what drivers do now is that they have increased their generosity towards the security agents, who mount surveillance at various observation spots along the now very risky Abuja/Kaduna expressway.
According to him: ” We give more money to the Police, soldiers and other security people who patrol along the highway. These people help us to cross most of the deadly spots where the kidnappings are rampant.”
A young female passenger, who simply identified herself as Zainab, who claimed to be a student of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, said that even though the risk of being kidnapped is very high on the Abuja-Kaduna road , she had no time to go and queue up for long hours just to purchase tickets for a train ride.
The reactions of both the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) and the FCT Transportation Secretariat could not be gotten, as the available staff were not ready to comment on the issue.