Senator Ayo Arise, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), represented Ekiti North Senatorial District between 2007 and 2011. In this interview, he speaks on expectations from President Muhammadu Buhari in his second term in office, autonomy for local governments, the recent suspension of Engr. Segun Oni from the APC and 20 years of Nigeria’s democracy. ADEWALE AJAYI reports  Governor Fayemi seems to have wooed the people of Ekiti State to his side with the programmes he has initiated so far. Which area do you expect the governor to improve on? I believe that it is work in progress and it is too early to do any serious evaluation of his government. I believe such exercise should be carried out after one year in office when most of his programmes would have touched the lives of Ekiti people. But, like you rightly observed, many of the initiatives are commendable. President Muhammadu Buhari would be sworn-in for a second term in office in a few days. What are your expectations of him in his second term in office? Nigerians expect Mr. President to continue with his good policies of tackling the security challenges in the country, economic development, diversification of the economy and focus on challenges of employment in the country. Corruption is the greatest enemy of Nigeria. The corruption index published around the world determines the confidence level International organizations’ and businesses will repose in any country. This government has incarcerated many high-profile corrupt people in our country and the war on corruption and corrupt practices was one of the most important reasons why Nigerians voted massively for President Buhari in the last election. This is by no means totally encompassing, but this new term gives President Buhari another four years to greatly reduce and deter corruption in Nigeria. It is expected that those that would constitute the cabinet in Buhari’s second term are people who should be able to complement his effort towards delivering the promises he made to Nigerians. What should be the criteria in selecting members of the next cabinet? The President must have yardsticks, first to meet the constitutional guidelines for constituting his executive. Beyond that, he needs to determine his choice based on competence, experience and character. He must as much as possible look for people of impeccable character, who would not rubbish his quest to eradicate or reduce corruption in the management of our economy.  It is also imperative that he must as a priority, ensure as much as possible even spread in appointments into some key parastatals. Attention must be focused on appointment of service chiefs and other key positions that constitute the basis for criticism of the President in the first term. Despite efforts made by the Federal Government to end insecurity in the country, the problem has persisted. Why is it difficult to reduce the problem or eradicate it? There is no doubt that many aspects of the security challenge have been reduced substantially particularly the Boko Haram menace is no longer the way it was when this government came in 2015. Boko Haram practically conquered some local governments in the North-East and hoisted their flags there. This is no longer the case today. The kidnapping problem is a work in progress, and you will notice that under the new Inspector General of Police, the war has been taken to the kidnappers as many of them have been arrested and many of their abodes decimated. There is more assurance that Nigeria will be safe under this government. We have seen the action of the new police boss in the steps he has taken so far. He just made move to introduce community policing to ensure a more effective coverage of the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. Recently, Federal Government’s revenue allocation committee promised to ensure that money allocated to local governments by the federal government gets to the councils. Will this lead to improvement in the performance of the local governments, or do you think more effort should be made to ensure autonomy for local government autonomy? The issue of local government autonomy requires serious discussion as it relates to the tiers of government we wish to run under our federation. I personally believe that local governments should be controlled by the states. This will allow them to decide on the number of local governments they can afford in their respective states. The quality of manpower available to the local governments is another issue. We need to be very careful about that so that the funds would not just be shared by local government officials without accountability. If we must keep the current structure as it is now, then we need to see some accountability that would engender probity, transparency and punishment for unbridled corruption if the local governments would become autonomous. The outgoing governor of Imo State Rochas Okorocha, recently alleged that there is a clique within the All Progressives Congress (APC), which is bent on frustrating any member of the party that goes against its wish. Do you agree with his position? This problem might be a self-inflicted wound. Our party could not win in Imo and the situation is almost totally attributed to the governor’s decision to field a candidate against his party’s candidate. It is therefore no secret that the party is not happy with him. He should find a way of settling with the party. If the party just sits back and allow such action to go unchallenged, it may have a long-term crippling effect on party supremacy and directives going into the future. The Federal Government has agreed to make the event of May 29 handing-over a low key in order to celebrate Democracy Day on June 12. No doubt, this is recognition for the struggle for Nigeria’s return to civil rule by Chief MKO Abiola. In which other areas do you feel the Federal Government should honour the late Abiola? Immortalizing MKO Abiola is honour well deserved. I believe the Federal Government has done very well. The Lagos State government has also done well in naming significant landmarks after Abiola. A former governor of Ekiti State and immediate past Deputy National Chairman of the APC, Engr Segun Oni, was recently suspended by the party. Do you think that the decision was taken in good faith and what is your position on his suspension? Those claiming that they suspended him from his ward understand that they do not have such powers. Such action will gain currency if the state governor or the party at the state level has a hand in such move. It is laughable that some people gathered together at a ward meeting to say that they have suspended someone who has been governor and national deputy chairman of the party. There should be some respect for some offices. This is without prejudice to anyone who engages in anti-party activities to be disciplined by the party at the appropriate level of authority.  Nigeria will be celebrating 20 years of civil rule, have we made any appreciable progress, if not, where did we get it wrong? We are improving. We cannot become a perfect democracy in 20 years. America is over 250 years of democracy and they still run into troubled waters every now and then. We are still working on ensuring that our votes count. There has been significant improvement from 1999 to date. We are looking at electronic voting to reduce some of the apparent deficiencies in our electioneering process. Yes, in many areas, we have made appreciable progress, but there is a lot more to be done. No single government will resolve all the problems of a nation. Our target is that the next 20 years should be better than the past.