 The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said that it will monitor and sanction any Deposit Money Bank (DMB)/financial institution that contravene the provisions of its Clean Notes Policy and Banknotes Fitness Guideline.
The apex bank also said that it is planning to embark on a project that would see it mopping up all mutilated naira notes from circulation. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, said these at the unveiling of the banking watchdog’s Clean Notes Policy and Banknotes Fitness Guideline documents held in Lagos yesterday. Specifically, he said: “I wish to bring to your attention that after this unveiling event, the bank would monitor and sanction any DMB/financial institution that contravenes the provisions of the two policy documents.”
The CBN Governor, who was represented at the event by the Bank’s Deputy Governor (Operations), Mr. Folashodun Shonubi, stated that the Clean Notes Policy and Banknotes Fitness Guidelines were key policy documents that would assist the public and stakeholders to identify banknotes that are fit for circulation and those unfit to be withdrawn from circulation. According to him, the effective use of the documents by relevant stakeholders in the currency management value chain would ensure that banknotes in circulation are “clean and of high quality – characteristics that are key to sustaining public confidence in the national currency.” The CBN Governor, who pointed out that despite the improvements in electronic payments system, banknotes remain predominant for payment and settlement of commercial transactions in the country, pledged that the regulator would continue to ensure the right supply of clean and quality banknotes “in a balanced denominational mix to meet public demand, while also maintaining a balanced currency structure that is both efficient and cost effective.”
He emphasised: “It is a criminal offence to abuse the naira. Moreover, the naira is our identity as a country, so we need to respect it.” The apex bank chief also stated that while the responsibility of preserving the integrity of the naira and sustaining public confidence in the national currency is enshrined in Section 2 of the CBN Act 2007, “the responsibility for clean notes in circulation is not exclusively that of the Central Bank, rather a collaborative effort between the Central Bank, banknote suppliers, deposit money banks (DMBs), manufacturers of currency management equipment, currency transportation and processing companies, security agencies, and the general public.” The Governor, who commended the existing collaboration between the CBN and the stakeholders in the currency management value chain, however, called for the strengthening of the relationship for the overall good of the industry. He noted that as part of efforts to encourage more private sector participation in the currency management value chain to ensure availability of clean banknotes, the CBN has registered eight companies to carry out Cash-In-Transit (CIT) and two Cash Processing Companies (CPCs) to operate in the country. He also revealed that the regulator had approved the revised guidelines for registration of CIT/CPCs.
Furthermore, he stated that apart from stepping up its direct disbursement of lower banknotes to various market associations and merchants through their respective DMBs, the CBN has also reduced the processing charges for DMB deposit of lower denomination banknotes (N5 – N50) to encourage the return of unsorted banknotes to the CBN for processing. Also speaking at the event, the Director, Currency Operations Department at the CBN, Mrs. Pricilla Eleje, said mutilated naira notes should be taken to DMBs or any CBN branch for replacement.
She urged Nigerians not to reject any of such notes as the CBN would soon embark on a project that would lead to its mopping up all mutilated notes from circulation.
Eleje explained that the apex bank would set a timeframe during which banks would be encouraged to accept all dirty notes from the public.
She disclosed that the CBN and DMBs will soon embark on public sensitization on the provisions of the clean note policy.