Armed men have killed at least 29 people in parts of Zamfara and Plateau states.
Among the victims were six members of an extended family. At least 23 people were killed by bandits who invaded Tunga and Kabaje villages in Kaura-Namoda Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Herdsmen believed to be of Fulani extraction killed at least six members of one family on Monday night at Dangwal village in Ganawuri District of Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State. The Zamfara State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Mohammed Shehu, confirmed the killing of 23 people in Gusau.
He said: “It is true that the bandits killed 23 persons in the attack. “At the moment, peace has been restored in the affected areas and a combined team of mobile and regular police, the Army and Air Force are on surveillance in the area.” Earlier, the Chairman of Kaura-Namoda Local Government Area, Alhaji Lawal Isa, had said that bandits numbering over 100, riding on motorcycles, invaded two communities in the early hours of yesterday when residents were going to their farms.
Isa said the bandits might have come for reprisal following the killing of one of their suspected informants whose name he gave simply as Anas. The chairman said that unknowingly to Anas, he was trailed by local vigilante members when he picked a wife and child of a suspected bandit at Angwan Sarki village to take them to the man in the bush on his motorcycle. He said: “The vigilante members blocked the rider and killed all three instantly on Monday and about 5 O’clock the following morning, the gang invaded the villages and killed the victims.”
Isa said all the villagers killed had been buried in the two villages according to Islamic rites. The chairman appealed to security agencies to consider going to the identified hideouts of the bandits, especially at Gidan na Zumbure village “which now harbours the bandits and serves as their base for launching attacks’’.
Meanwhile, investigation revealed that the gunmen invaded Dangwal village in Plateau State about 8p.m., attacked and killed family members of Lo-Gwong Du.
It was learnt that the gunmen killed the grandfather, grandmother, two children, their mother and father. The state Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chairman and former Minister of Sports, Hon. Damishi Sango, who is from the community, confirmed the killing.
Sango said six persons were killed. He condemned the attack and called on state government and security agencies to live up to their constitutional responsibility of protecting lives and property.
Also, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Matthias Tyopev Terna, confirmed the killing in a statement yesterday.
He said: “On 28/05/2019 about 6a.m., one Dalyop Boyi, the youth leader of Nakai Danwal village in Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State reported to the Plateau State Police Command that about 7p.m, (the previous day), gunmen attacked the house of Gyang Dachung of Nakai Danwal village, as a result, six persons lost their lives. “The command mobilised to the village, the photographs of the corpses were taken and released to the relatives on demand and they were buried according their traditional rites.
“The Deputy Commissioner of Police, Department of Operations, Plateau State Command, Jos, visited the scene. The police patrol of the area is being intensified in order to discourage any reprisal.
“The command is soliciting credible information to track and arrest the perpetrator(s) to face justice.” The police in Zamfara State on Tuesday confirmed the killing of 23 persons in Tunga and Kabaje villages, Kaura-Namoda Local Government Area by suspected bandits in the early hours of the day. Confirming the incident to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Gusau, the state capital, the Police Public Relations… In "National news" Gunmen have killed 10 people during attacks in Dutsen- Wake and Oho Village in Birnin-Magaji Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Muhammad Shehu, who confirmed this to journalists in Gusau yesterday, said the bandits attacked the two villages on Tuesday about 10p.m.… In "Metro and Crime" Gov Yari: Attacks a daily affair It's a national emergency –Marafa Trader: Families pay millions of naira every week to kidnappers Resident: Whistle blowers are hunted and killed by gunmen Armed robbery, cattle rustling and killings prevalent in nine LGs     There are indications that some militia groups may… In "News"