…26 excelled in 2018 NECO examination  Justice Munta Abimbola, the Chief Judge (CJ) of Oyo State, yesterday released 38 inmates from the Medium Security Prison, Abolongo in Oyo town.
Leading several officials of the state judiciary, including three judges – Justices Taiwo Taiwo, Iyabo Yerima and Princess Adeyemi – assisted by the prison officials led by the state Controller of Prisons, Mr. Tosin Akinrujomu, the CJ reviewed the cases of the inmates and released them on the grounds of serious ill health, tardy prosecution from the police and the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), as well as unreasonable number of years of detention.
The prison statutory capacity is 160 while 457 inmates are being held in it. Among them were 364 awaiting trial inmates, while 92 were already convicted.
In a related manner, the Controller of Prisons disclosed that 26 inmates from prisons in the state sat for and excelled in the 2018 NECO examination with at least six credits.
Some of the inmates had spent about seven to eight years in the prison for either bailable or non-bailable offences but have been having their cases dragged in the Magistrates’ Courts without their cases transferred to the High Court for proper prosecution.
When asked why many of the inmates were still in detention without legal advice given on their cases to determine their culpability or otherwise, the DPP replied that some of the cases had not been confirmed in their records, blaming administrative bottlenecks.
The CJ was irked by the response.
He said: “Ordinarily, we are not happy about some lapses seen from the DPP regarding the fundamental rights of some people kept in detention.”
Abimbola described some policemen as ‘persecutors’ rather than prosecutors, lamenting the level at which many frivolous criminal charges were filed before Magistrates’ Courts and left without due prosecution.
He nevertheless commended the prison officials for the arduous job they were doing in keeping the inmates. “The lock-in itself is appalling because the congestion is worrisome. The smell itself is discouraging. We have some lapses in the Administration of Criminal Justice but we should all work towards making it better.”