Chief Strategist Global Performance Index International, George Ashiru, in this interview with BIYI ADEGOROYE, speaks about the current environmental, security and safety issues, stating that artificial intelligence should be used to address current security problems  What is your view on Nigerians’ perception of safety? Nigerians general view safety as a cost incurring exercise to business and personal life instead of a proactive accident prevention system that adds value in terms of reduction in business cost and quality of life. This former perception must change for the latter in our collective interest and benefits.  What are some contemporary global safety issues which you think should engage our attention? Contemporary global safety issues include global warming due to increase in Co2 levels in the atmosphere from the burning of fossil fuels. The effect of this is rise in global temperature (big issue in Europe right now), rise in sea levels due melting of ice in the arctic region with the resultant flooding issues in coastal areas. Others are ozone layer depletion, which has resulted in increase in cancer cases, epidemics e.g. Ebola and HIV/AIDS. We are also aware that oil pollution from exploration/exploitation & transportation of crude oil, desertification especially in the Middle East and Sahel region of Africa and ground water resources depletion. These are some current global safety issues of serious concern.  What safety measures can we put in place to survive the current global warming? Use of electric cars, solar for power generation, gas energy to replace coal fuels and diesel engines and legislation in line with the UN climate change agenda.   How will you describe the relationship between health, safety and environment?
Health, safety and environment all have the same purpose or aims i.e. they are all concerned with the protection and having a positive effect on the welfare and wellbeing of man. Health is concerned with the prevention of diseases causing organisms and conditions that affect people/society, safety aims to prevent hazards and hazardous conditions in the workplace/surroundings while environment aims to preserve man’s ecosystem (land, air, water and flora/fauna) in its pristine form from man’s activities that cause pollution to the ecosystem, thus all three are aimed at enhancing the welfare and wellbeing of humans.  What is the reason for the event and who are your target stakeholders? The reason for the event is to change people’s attitude to HSE by first making them know that safety starts with you, it has to be a conscious personal effort of imbibing a safety culture (HSE in our DNA), which will then unlock the hidden billionaires in you that will lead to a lifestyle of healthy living, job/wealth creation and positive impact to the society at large. Target stakeholders are the general public, especially young people, regulators and companies whose activities if not controlled/monitored can have negative impact on HSE and HSE professionals.   How do you think contemporary environmental and safety problems can be addressed?
The first step is having a robust and effective legislation that is not only implemented but enforced when HSE violations occur, which sadly is lacking in Nigeria. Also HSE should be introduced as civic course from foundational levels in our school curricula, so as to shape people’s minds from the young age, remember the Bible saying teach the child and when he grows up he will not depart from thy ways.  Will you call for return of sanitary inspectors? Definitely, but they should be given powers in line with the UK HSE Executive Officers who have more powers than the police.  How do you think companies should attach great importance to HSE issues? By top management taking responsibility for HSE by providing resources, being seen on the shop floor by workers i.e. walk the talk and encouraging good safety behaviours or actions through incentive schemes and sponsoring of HSE events (like the just concluded summit). The standard of HSE culture in any organisation depends on the value top management attaches to HSE.   What roles do regulatory agencies have to play in this regard? The regulatory agencies can do a lot by enforcing both national and international HSE standards and guidelines, which for now is week in Nigeria.   Why should youngsters take careers in HSE?
They should because, apart from the monetary gains, HSE is a humanitarian occupation of saving lives and thus is a spiritually fulfilling occupation like the Red Cross, UNICEF etc.  Does your organisation believe in catching them young for this purpose? Yes, because we believe in enabling people to solve problems, this summit is a testament to that, as you can see no fee was charged to the public and majority of the attendees are young people, which we went further to encourage by acknowledging projects they embarked upon that has a positive effect on societal HSE issues.   What is your impression on the recent HSE workshop which your company co-sponsored in Lagos? It was a great opportunity for Global Performance Index International to be associated with the HSE summit. We are a tech company and we try to use technology to enhance performances and productivity in organisations in the country as a whole and in Africa. We want to be able to have global impact in terms of the way we use technology to optimise and transform organisational behavior and processes.  Recently, we have been having issues with good health and safety matters in Nigeria, so at GPI we thought of how we can we use Artificial Intelligence to increase safety and health and also increase sustainability in terms of environment in Nigeria and because we are a problem solving organization; we thought about doing a summit and bringing professionals to identify the problems. We at GPI will turn it to technology and enhance things in the country.  Currently, people in the northern part of Nigeria have come under attack from unknown persons. Imagine if they had drones in the sky controlled by artificial intelligence that could look at people moving around and could potentially spot those with weapons using infrared technology and the appropriate persons would be informed. That is technology and that is safety. We can’t leave everything to humans.  Also imagine if there was a mobile application that one could report emergencies almost real time and as soon as they see it they can access your location because of GIS. It is not expensive to use technology at all. All companies should adopt safety cultures and let all their staff undergo safety trainings. In doing so the company would realise that their downtime and insurance claims would reduce and their profitability would go up.  In the United Kingdom, they stated that safety issues cost the economy £15 billion. If we have the tendency to look at issues that regard HSE in corporate terms and government organisations around us we might be able to increase the economy by being HSE compliant.