Pioneer Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Hon. Duerimini Isaacs Kekemeke, in this interview with Babatope Okeowo, gives reasons why the party lost the presidential election in the state. He also spoke on expectations from the Muhammadu Buhari administration in the next four years  What is your assessment of the just concluded general elections?
I believe that Nigerians deserve to be congratulated for this unbroken 20 years of democratic practice. Generally, the elections were fair and the outcome in my view represents the general will of the people. The increase in violence leading to deaths, ballot snatching, destruction of collation centres and the over-visibility of the military are worrisome signals. Though, it does appear that these developments are a reaction to the foreclosure of some other vices like ballot stuffing and vote buying that plagued the electoral process. By and large, the important thing is that the outcome represents the general will of the people. What do you think was responsible for APC’s loss of the presidential election in Ondo State?
If the truth must be told as I think we should, we lost in that election because we were firing the cylinder from too many directions. All of us wanted President Muhammadu Buhari to win, but we were disunited. There was no central command and rallying point as was the case in 2015. As for the National Assembly elections, it was clear that some highly placed people in the party engaged in anti-party activities by raising and supporting candidates in another party – Action Alliance (AA). So, while we were united about President Buhari winning the election, we disagreed and were not united on the various Senate or House of Representative seats in a number of constituencies particularly in about six of the constituencies, and we lost. If you were to be Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, what would you have done differently?
The biggest challenge was created by the governor himself. I have respect for his person, but my view has always been that when you win an election, you don’t begin to revenge. You take no revenge once you win. What to do is to bring everybody together; you no longer have a team of your own and everybody in the party become yours. Even beyond that, everybody in the state should be yours. I believe the governor was not and is still not magnanimous in victory.
If I were to be the governor, that is what I would have done. Exactly what I did when I became the chairman of the party. I brought everybody together as it didn’t matter whether you like me or not. For example, when I won the chairmanship seat in the 2014 state congress, the governor didn’t support me. I went to Ibadan twice to see him and to solicit his support for my administration. That is the way to go. There seems not to be unity among chieftains of the APC in the state and a lot of people have blamed that as one of the reasons why the party is not really moving forward. What is your take on that?
You are right. There are too many tendencies within the party in the state and it was partly responsible for the reversal of our electoral gains of 2015. Now that we all have seen what exclusion and disunity can fetch us, we should all put the past behind us and embrace peace. An election is a periodic thing and you will always need a party. The more united a party is, the easier it is for it to win elections. So, the ball is still in the governor’s court. The governorship election is coming up next year, what should the governor do to retain the state? Do you still see the party retaining the state with the rancour within party members?
I am very optimistic that our party will still win in the next gubernatorial election in Ondo State, but not without hard work. What happened in Oyo, Adamawa and Imo states is instructive. We need to start putting the party together. More so, that I foresee an election before the election, there is the need to stabilize the party now to avert disaster The earlier our party is put together, the better for us. There are rumours that you want to contest the next governorship election in the state. How true is that?
Of course, in advanced democracies, this is the time a lot of things happen. Every citizen of this state, who has the requisite qualifications stipulated in our constitution, has a right to aspire and I think I am qualified. I am looking at the availability of the opportunity and also looking at whether it is explorable and then take a decision after due consultations. If eventually, you decide to run, what are some of the things you plan to do?
Looking at my involvement in the politics of the state in the last 27 years and having moved through the legislature, the executive and with some insight in the judiciary; and having worked in the PDP as pioneer secretary and APC as pioneer chairman, I will ensure that our party is one irrespective of individuals inclination in the party primary elections. I will primarily focus on education, access to health, employment generation, agriculture and industries. What about the health sector? What will you do differently?
The present government is trying its best, but much more could still be done. We ought to focus more attention on primary health care and make sure that the programme the Dr. Olusegun Agagu administration instituted is reinvigorated by ensuring that all the political wards have functional basic health centres and also that the 26 hospitals across the state function properly with qualified medical personnel. Of course, there is a need for active and sustained partnership and collaboration with all governmental and non-governmental actors in the health sector. Let us take a peep into the next four years of President Buhari. What should Nigerians expect?
President Buhari is very easy to read. He is not a man of too many words. During both the 2015 and 2019 elections, he didn’t speak too elaborately, so it is easy to read him and know what he is going to do. He will reinvigorate the fight against corruption. In the next four years, the defeat of Boko Haram will be on the ground and not just technical. I mean Boko Haram would be physically defeated. I join other Nigerians to wish for a better standard of living. I foresee a consolidation of the effort in agriculture so that in a short while, Nigeria will be able to feed herself.
On the fight against corruption, some have labeled it as selective but for me, a selective fight against corruption is still better than a no fight at all. The President should, however, make sure that members of his administration who have committed breaches are prosecuted without delay. Luckily, the President has indicated his resolve to do so. I will also want the President to conclude the reformation of the electoral system before the next round of elections. As much as possible, our elections process should employ more technology. Between now and 2023, everything should be done to allow for electronic voting and electronic computation of result. What do you think of the alleged suspension of Governor Akeredolu from the APC? Do you think the party has handled it well?
Everyone in Ondo State APC believes that the governor has issues with the national leadership of our party on allegation of anti-party activities. Even though the state is rife with rumours of the governor’s suspension from the party, there is neither confirmation nor rebuttal from the party’s national leadership. It is only a matter of time before we know the truth. There is a clamour for the dissolution of the Ondo State executive of the party. Do you share the view?
I do not want to sound vindictive, but the bitter truth known to many party men is that Ondo State APC deserves better leadership than it currently has.