Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. General Tukur Buratai, has charged Commanding Officers of different units to work towards tackling criminalities, insecurity and other related vices within their Areas of Responsibility (AOR). The Army chief who gave the order during a five-day first workshop which ended on May 24, at the 81 Division Officers Mess, Lagos, said: “Like you understand, the Commanding Officers here are from the South-South, South-East and South-West.”  Speaking on the theme: ‘Enhanced leadership; Prerequisite for the Nigerian Army Transformation to meet Contemporary Challenges’, Buratai tasked the Commanding Officers to learn from their contemporaries on how to apply leadership skills in their various unit. The COAS, who was represented by the Corps Commander Signals, Maj. Gen. Muhammed Muhammed, added: “There is rich knowledge of activities going on in these areas, so bringing them together here is for them to share knowledge and to understand also the new directive and policies that will guide their conduct and understand the need to integrate with the societies where they are working.”  Buratai noted that the workshop was aimed at improving the skills of Commanding Officers towards developing a more professional and efficient approach on the performance of their statutory roles in both peace and war time. He said: “I am highly delighted to be in this occasion of the first Commanding officers workshop, which is highly necessary in line with our vision to the security challenges confronting Nigeria on daily basis and also to find a solution to those challenges.  “The intending nature of this workshop which are routinely organised by the Nigerian Army of various cadres on the procedure and process for administration requirements is in line with security challenges.” Earlier, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 81 Division, Major General Musa Yusuf, said the training activities was designed by the Army Headquarters to enhance and build the capacity of the Commanding Officers.