  Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the February 23 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his party yesterday insisted that the Chairman of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, should disqualify herself from presiding and being a member of the panel over alleged possible bias. The tribunal had fixed yesterday for the pre-hearing session on a petition Atiku and his party jointly filed to challenge the outcome of the presidential election. At the resumed hearing of the petition, marked CA/PEPC/002/2019, Atiku, through his lead counsel, Dr. Livy Uzoukwu (SAN), applied to meet the five-man panel tribunal headed by the Court of Appeal President, Justice Bulkachuwa, in chambers. Uzoukwu did not disclose reason behind his application to have a private meeting with the panel. The panel, however, acceded to the request, called on parties to nominate two lawyers each to attend the meeting and consequently withdrew to the Chambers. When the tribunal came back about an hour later, Justice Bulkachuwa, while announcing the tribunal’s decision, said that the petitioners’ legal team, led by Dr. Uzoukwu, asked her to recuse herself from the panel at the meeting held in chambers. “The request by the petitioners followed an earlier letter I received from the PDP’s National Chairman, Uche Secondus, also demanding me to disqualify myself from further participation in the panel. “Since the matter was already in the public domain, the panel had decided to have the issue treated openly,” she said. She then asked the petitioners’ counsel to move the application. Uzoukwu, however, responded that the petitioners will come by way of a formal application, promising to file the application today. While counsel to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Yunus Ustaz (SAN), said they are not opposed to the application, counsel to President Muhammadu Buhari, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN), said he was ready to respond to the application if the petitioners are ready to move the application orally. He, however, noted that if the petitioners prefer a formal application, then they will be asking for the normal seven days provided by the law to respond. Counsel to the All Progressives Congress (APC), Lateef Fagbemi (SAN) aligned himself with the position of Olanipekun. Consequently, Justice Bulkachuwa, with the agreement of counsel, held that: “Application yet to be filed is adjourned to May 22 for hearing”. In its letter of protest, the PDP had alleged that as the Chairman of the five-man panel, Bulkachuwa would likely be biased in the handling of the tribunal’s proceedings because of her ties to family members belonging to the APC. The party, in the letter which was signed by PDP National Chairman, Secondus, and its National Secretary, Umaru Tsauri, specifically said Bulkachuwa’s husband, Adamu Bulkachuwa, contested and won the Bauchi North Senatorial District election on the platform of the APC during the February 23, 2019 poll. The party also complained that Bulkachuwa could have, by a comment she made during the inaugural sitting of the tribunal, prejudged its petition challenging the outcome of the February 23, 2019, presidential election. It further stated that Bulkachuwa’s claim in her speech to the effect that there would always be complaints no matter how an election was wellconducted had “rocked” its confidence in the panel led by her.There was a heavy presence of armed security operatives who blocked every route leading to the Court of Appeal premises as early as 7a.m. The operatives allowed journalists access upon proper identification. New Telegraph investigations revealed that the action was to stop protesters who have come in their hundreds to storm the venue of the tribunal. However, the protesters were seen about 3km away from the court chanting solidarity song in support of Atiku and PDP. It will be recalled that INEC had, on February 27, declared that Buhari garnered a total of 15,191,847 votes to defeat his closest rival, Atiku of the opposition PDP, who it said polled a total of 11,262,978 votes in the disputed presidential election. Meanwhile, the tribunal has ordered the service of the petition of the Coalition for change (C4C) on Buhari through substituted service. The court ordered that the petition on Buhari be served on him through any of the national officers of the APC at the party’s national headquarters at No 40 Blantyre Street, Wuse 2, Abuja. The order was sequel to an ex parte application moved by lawyer of the C4C, Obed Aguh.