Chief Emeka Ojukwu Jnr, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State, is a son of late Igbo leader, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu. In this interview, he speaks on the crisis in the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), among other issues. Okey Maduforo reports  You recently visited the National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Victor Ike Oye, and it is being alleged that you have returned to the party. Have you returned to APGA?
It is not surprising that people would jump to that conclusion. But by the way, people move from one party to another all the time and there is no noise about it, but when I visit my brother, it becomes an issue. At any rate, people are free to make insinuations about my visit to the national chairman of APGA. But for the record, I have not returned to the party. Are you not worried that it might be said that you have eaten your words?
You are presupposing that my answer to your previous question was yes, it was not. It is natural for people to read meanings into the visit. During my visit, the APGA national chairman and I discussed many issues, from the Igbo situation in Nigeria to issues pertaining to Anambra State, down to the growth of APGA in recent years and the prognosis for the party, given the current agitations by some members after the most recent primary elections.
My input was solicited and I gave my opinion as a stakeholder in Anambra State. My focus was on the prognosis for the party and my opinion is as follows: While it is true that some things could have been done better, I would appeal to all members that the baby should not be thrown out with the bath water. APGA is a national political party that has massive followership in the South-East and I believe that most Igbo, including myself, regardless of their political affiliations, still have that attachment to all issues that concern Igbo land.
Eze Igbo Gburugburu, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu, my late father, sacrificed his youth, time, health and wealth for the good of his people. APGA is his legacy and as such must be protected. If we allow our grievances; justified or unjustified, perceived or otherwise to lead us into actions that will lead to APGAs demise, we would be destroying Ojukwu’s legacy and the ideologies he bequeathed to us. Being the first son of Eze Igbo, I have a moral burden to protect those things my father held most dear and sacred, while exercising my right to freedom of association. I am honoured that the APGA national chairman found it imperative to solicit my contribution. Do you mean that those who were aggrieved over the party’s primaries for the 2015 elections should all forgive and forget, close ranks with the party’s leadership and forge ahead?
Let me first remind you of the story of King Solomon’s judgement and that biblical woman, who advocated before the king that instead of dissecting the baby, he should be kept alive such that when the child grows, he will discover who his mother is. Anybody who loves and holds dear everything my father stood for, would like the woman, chose the personal sacrifice as painful it may be over the alternative, which would lead to the death of the ‘baby’.
So, I say they should sheath their swords for the greater good and in honour of the man we all claim to love and respect. If they persist and allow the party to disintegrate, there are other well meaning sons of the soil ready and willing to pick up the mantle to keep the legacy alive. But the National Convention of the party will soon take place and you are making statements in sympathy for APGA…
I was asked questions about APGA and I answered questions about APGA, which happens to be the ruling party in my state. I cannot be concerned about my state without having a say on its ruling party, which by the way, has not done too badly in recent years. Sometimes, it is easier to focus on the negative and overlook the positive. From three members, the party now has 10 House of Representatives members; it has gained ground in other states, including Bayelsa, Imo, Abia, Taraba, Niger, Kaduna Anambra and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Some people are of the opinion that Anambra State governor, Chief Willie Obiano, has a hand in your visit, possibly to use you in ensuring that the party remains relevant. What is your relationship with the governor?
He is the governor and the first citizen of Anambra State. He is my elder and in Igbo land we give respect to whom it is due and that is our tradition. Beyond that, we have been friends and continue to enjoy a good relationship. In terms of this particular visit, I am not aware that he is involved. By the way, APGA as a national party has been relevant in the national discourse over the years and is even more so today than in years past.