Operatives of the anti-cultism unit of the Edo state police command may be in for the worst over their role in the arrest of the Chief Priest of Okhuaihe Shrine, Chief Osarodion Usuanlele, the Ohen Nu Koni Evbuekoi of the Benin kingdom as the force headquarters is said to have seriously frowned at the case. New Telegraph gathered that the Inspector General of Police, Mr. Mohammed Adamu is said to have been angered by reports in the media and had queried the top shots of the state command over the ugly incident. The Okhuaihe Shrine is located at Evbuekoi in Uhunwode Local Government Area. As part of the activities usually lined up for the coronation rites of Oba of Benin, the Chief Priest must have a symbolic wrestling with the Crown Prince. It was learnt that after the wrestling match both of them would go opposite ways, never to see each other again once the Crown Prince becomes the Oba. Already, the state police command is reported to have failed to meet up with some of the items listed by the palace of Oba of Benin which are essentially needed for purification and to appease the gods and ancestors of the land. According to the list, by violation of the tradition following the arrest of the Chief Priest and his sudden detention aas well as forcefully bringing him into Benin City, an act that is sacrilegious, the police are expected to provide 14 native cows, tortoise, sheep, goats, cocks each and one thousand kolanuts and other items of sacrifice. The sacrifice is to be carried out by relevant priests and native doctors to cleanse the land and allow peace in the kingdom. It was learnt that the policemen who carried out the arrest of the Chief Priest who by tradition and culture of Benin kingdom two weeks ago, did so without the instruction of the state commissioner of police, DanMallam Abubakar. The detention of the priest in Benin is viewed in the kingdom as a taboo, because it broke an age long tradition which prevents the Ohen N’ UKoni from entering Benin, the abode of the Omo N’Oba Nedo Uku Akpokpolo. Sadly, the ugly development had stirred wild criticism and condemnation in the state. Chief Osarodion Usuanlele after his initiation as the priest of the shrine during the reign of the late Oba Ewuare the great in 1440 AD is forbidden by tradition from entering Benin City and cannot see Benin monarch. He was forcefully arrested and taken to the state command following a petition by one of his subjects, Mr. John Elvis (a k.a Atekha) and others now at large, who are also members of the banned Community Development Association (CDA) by the state government. .New Telegraph findings revealed that the State Commissioner of Police DanMallam Abubakar, has since washed his hands off the invasion of the palace of the Chief Priest and his subsequent arrest. He said that the command never authorized the arrest of the priest. . Uhunmwonde, where the chief priest resides, is more than 60 kilometres from Benin City. It would be recalled that three hefty dogs were reportedly slaughtered near the police command headquarters in Benin, the state capital and other sacrifices carried out before the Ohen N’ Ukoni was released. DanMallam said that it was a sad development that the indigenous people who were conversant with the traditions were the same people who tried to mess it up. He noted that there was no justification for anyone to bring a man who had said that traditionally he was not expected to enter Benin City. He said, “Firstly, I did not authorize the arrest of the chief priest and nobody informed me until the traditional offence had been committed. Benin kingdom is one of the oldest kingdoms and we have high regards for the kingdom and will not allow anybody to come and mess the tradition up”. He said the command was looking into the matter, adding that he would ensure that those involved in the arrest of the chief priest do everything required to cleanse the land and appease the gods of the kingdom. The state police boss said that the arrest must have been done by some “overzealous officers” in connivance with some members of the chief priest’s community to humiliate him. He added that the police had no problem with the Benin kingdom, as the command holds the kingdom and the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II,the Ogidigan, in high esteem.