    The number of bank customers in the country that abandoned their accounts increased by 1.06 million between the end of March and April 30 this year, latest industry customer bank account data released by the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) at the weekend shows. A New Telegraph analysis of the NIBSS data indicates that whereas the total number of active bank accounts in the country as at the end of January this year stood at 71.9 million, increasing to 73.54 million and 74.04 million in February and March respectively, it dropped to 72.98 million as at the end of last month. Further breakdown of the figures shows that during the same period, total number of bank accounts increased steadily from 118.92 million in January to 120.14 million in February, 120.92 million in March and 121.64 million in April. This means that as at the end of last month, there were a total number of 48.66 million inactive accounts in the nation’s banking industry. With NIBSS data showing that the total number of bank accounts and active bank accounts standing at 118.10 million and 71.20 million respectively at the end of 2018, it means that the total number of inactive accounts increased from 46.90 million at the end December last year to 48.66 million last month. According to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) guidelines: “An account shall become inactive if there has been no customer or depositor-initiated transaction for a period of six months after the last customer or depositor initiated transaction.” Commenting on the sharp increase in the number of inactive bank accounts last month compared with trend in the first quarter of this year, a Relationship Manager at a Tier 1 lender, who did not want to be named, attributed it to the harsh economy as well as complaints about bank charges. The bank official said: “There is no money in the system. Anybody you talk with these days is complaining about the harsh economy; they will tell you that their businesses are stagnant. Some customers also say that they abandoned their accounts due to high bank charges.” Similarly, in a chat with New Telegraph, the President of Bank Customers’ Association of Nigeria (BCAN), Dr. Uju Ogubunka, attributed the rise in inactive bank accounts last month to the tough economy. He said: “The truth is that cash flow in the economy is a bit tight now. People don’t use banks, except they have need for them. It is obvious that the economy is passing through tough times and businesses are struggling. “So, if you don’t have money and you are not going to get an overdraft, why would you want to go to the bank? The increase in the number of inactive bank accounts is clearly an indication that the economy is not doing well.” However, a former banker and financial analyst, Mr. Paulinus Ihebuzor, said that apart from the harsh economy, the uncertainty regarding the direction of the economy after the elections may also have contributed to the development. He noted that although the elections have been concluded, most businesses are being cautious and are waiting to see what new policies the government might introduce before taking major business decisions. New Telegraph also gathered that the sharp rise in the number of inactive bank accounts last month might not be unconnected with the growing number of Nigerians leaving the country for Western nations such as Canada and the United States. A bank official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “A lot of people are leaving the country for Canada and abandoning their bank accounts. It’s all as a result of the hardship in this country. A lot of people have lost and are losing their jobs. Even those people who have jobs don’t earn enough to take care of their needs not to talk about having savings in the bank.” However, New Telegraph’s findings also revealed that most banks are stepping up efforts to reach out to customers who have abandoned their bank accounts. Such customers frequently receive phone calls and emails from the lenders reminding them that their accounts are inactive and they should take steps to ensure that the accounts do not become dormant.