 A 28-year-old dismissed soldier, Ayobami Onigbinde, yesterday claimed he had used fake bank alerts to defraud unsuspecting people of about N600,000 within a month. Onigbinde, who was paraded by the Ondo State Police Command for the crime, said he was dismissed from the Army Training School having used fake credentials to get admission into the school. Since he was dismissed from the Army, Onigbinde said he had engaged in using fake bank alerts to defraud unsuspecting members of the public. He said he had used fake bank alerts to buy goods in Lagos, Osun, Ogun and Ondo states. He said: “I was dismissed from the military. I was dismissed because I used fake credentials to get into the military. It was when I wanted to do pass-out parade that the Military Intelligence caught me. They detected that I used fake state of origin. “I got the apps of the bank. I told people that I am a soldier. I will tell them that I lost my ATM in Maiduguri during the war against Boko Haram and that I wanted to do bank transfer. “I can use any bank app. I will send fake bank alert to the person. It was one of the persons I sent fake alert to that tracked my number and I was arrested. I made N600,000 in one month.” Parading Onigbinde alongside other suspects, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Undie Adie, said a team of detectives from the Anti-Cultism Squad, Akure, acting on a tip-off, arrested Onigbinde and 22-year-old Aroyeun Oladayo who specialised in defrauding members of the public of their money or goods. Adie said in perpetrating their act, the duo would present themselves as Army officers and proceed to obtain either goods or money from their unsuspecting victims and generate fake electronic money transfer alert on their own phones which they show to the victims as proof that they have paid for what they collected. He said: “The victims are then deceived to believe that they will soon receive their credit alert as delays are often due to network problems. “Upon interrogation, they confessed to have so defrauded Eze Patrick and eighteen others.” Some of the items they used the fake bank alerts to purchase and were recovered from them included assorted clothes, Hisense fridge, one Elepaq generator, one Century stabilizer (5,000 voltage), two jeans trousers, T-shirts and shoes. Aside Onigbinde and his accomplice, Adie said that on Monday policemen from Igbotako Division were alerted by members of the public that armed robbers were operating along Mile 49 Area, Ore-Lagos Expressway, dispossessing commuters of their valuables and at the same time attempting to kidnap some of them. The commissioner said the policemen were promptly mobilised to the scene and engaged the robbers in a shootout which forced them to escape into the bush. According to him, the policemen pursued the fleeing robbers and consequently arrested one of them, Ibrahim Usman (19), from Bagudu in Kebbi State. Usman, the police boss said, confessed to the crime and claimed that one Abdullahi led other group members – Umoru, Mohammed and Ibrahim – from Kwara State for the operation. The suspect also disclosed that they had been robbing and kidnapping members of the public in that area for a very long time.