Dr. Adebayo Orire was a gubernatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last governorship election in Ekiti State. The member of the APC Elders’ Forum spoke with ADEWUMI ADEMIJU on the crisis rocking the state chapter of the party, among other issues. Excerpts…   What’s your take on the statement credited to the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, in which he was alleged of attacking Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, while speaking on how to eradicate godfatherism in Lagos?
I know there was an altercation, but I don’t think it was a direct altercation, between the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Governor El-Rufai. I have never heard Tinubu actually saying a word about it directly, but we know that El Rufai was in Lagos for a function where he was talking on godfatherism and the need to quash whatever it’s like that in Lagos. His supporters cast aspersions and derogatory remarks on the person of Tinubu with a lot of insinuations, as if it was calculated to despoil the personality and honour of Tinubu.
As a politician, I see it as unnecessary, they went to the extent of saying that Asiwaju Tinubu went to the extent of proposing to make El-Rufai his running mate in 2023, when we have not yet sworn in the present ones for this regime. It is uncalled for, it is all negative. What these guys are not looking at is the future of this country. If democracy is going to thrive, if Nigeria is to remain one, we must not use any divide line, we must not use religion, and we must not use stupid biases.
Let’s look at it in such a way that, why we suffered in the last four years of our reign in APC was because of a statement that generated a bad blood from the President during his first swearing in, when he said; ‘I belong to everybody and I belong to nobody’. This is to actually let some people not see the president as their personal property, but it developed into a lot of nasty things. We lost the upper house, cooperation, gains of democracy, and its coming up again.
It was done on the leaders of this party to be able to see that a lot of responsibilities is on us to make Nigeria peaceful, better for the progress of the country, that will mean a lot to the common man. The discredit of the APC would be a credit to the PDP or other parties that may want to gang up. Whatever we are doing now, we must look at long, medium and short term effect. If we could wrest power from the PDP in 2015, anybody can wrest power from us if we are not careful. Many Nigerians are not satisfied with the insecurity in the country. What do you think can be done to improve the situation?
You and I are not satisfied with the state of security in the country, not because Buhari is not trying, not because the government is not working, but because everything is upside down. A human being can just be picked up and murdered and nothing will happen. People are being killed and murdered by the so called Boko Haram and kidnappers, in a country that has all the necessary security apparatus; the armed forces, police, immigration, paramilitary. What are we doing? The laws are there but are not being obeyed. The system is not working. Don’t you think that some people are not doing their job?
You and I, and every other person are not performing. We are cooperating to wreck Nigeria, we want to blame the armed forces for not giving us enough artillery and things to fight with. We took the money, what did we do with it? And after we discovered it, some boys were jailed and tried for treason, fighting against their superiors. What did the government and law do? Why would a country be fighting Boko Haram for the 10 years? Why should herdsmen be killing people for no just cause? These are private business men, this kind of businesses are in other countries. In Germany, United States, etc, they don’t just kill people anyhow. What is happening here is unreasonable. The government and individuals are permitting it, we are not regulated. As long as we continue not to obey law, the security would be worsened, the country is corrupt, and the executive is looking the other way. It is time we plan to have a paradigm shift. President Buhari must know that he has nothing to gain than giving Nigeria the best which start from security. Do you agree with those proffering regionalism as solution?
Regionalism is a way of breaking up a country into a smaller and controllable units for better management. From that perspective, it’s going to be better. Each of the region is still within Nigeria, they will manage their resources, develop their regions and contribute to the centre. That is what is happening in the USA and Great Britain and they are waxing strong. Each region will manage their resources very well.
Imagine South West going at the rate it was going during the time of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and other regions following suit, there is going to be a revival in the sense of their commitments. The Northerners with their groundnut pyramid would have developed. We don’t have to rely on oil to be rich. There are other resources; iron ore had been rendered useless in the last 20 years, we are diverting the whole thing into oil. That is why the central is not holding. The states are depending on the Federal Government for handouts. We must sit now and restructure every aspect -economy, geographical spread, laws, security matters, etc., in such a way that, between the centre and the regions, there is interrelationships that carry responsibilities. In another 10 years, Nigeria will be different. In that regard, don’t you think that the recommendations of the last confab and economic summit should be adopted?
We have had many summits and it had been the same thing being repeated in different ways. Everybody know the answer, everybody knows what will cure the thing, but we don’t have the political will to make them manifest. Go and bring the report of the summits we have held, you will find out that it is the same principle. If another one is conveyed, there would be federalism, regionalism, etc., we are still not going to follow it, and until we follow it, we are just walking on eventual dissipation and factionalisation. My advice is that we result to regionalism for decentralization and devolution of powers, it will work. Each and every one of us will take responsibilities, everybody will stand up, and Nigeria will take a new shape, otherwise Nigeria will break. What’s your opinion on the suspension of former Governor Segun Oni by the Ekiti APC?
I have no opinion on Oni’s Suspension. There are some processes you must take before suspending somebody, there must be offences somebody must have committed and ways to attend to it. It is just immature. After election, he went to court, and so? We won, and so? No victor, no vanquished. It is still the same. We must manage our party and state very well. We must show understanding. I am neither in support nor against because I don’t see it as any exercise at all. If Segun Oni and Kayode Fayemi meet tomorrow, they will dine on the same table. Why are we wasting our time? Segun Oni has been governor before.
There are questions to be asked. What is the APC National Chairman Adam Oshiomhole and the APC in the South West saying about the suspension? Who gave the authority to the ward to suspend Segun Oni? What feathers do that add to our party? He has gone to court, we have won and defeated him, what else do we want? I don’t have any opinion on that. To me, it’s a puerile and stupid exercise. In the same vein, some APC chieftains, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Hon.Oyetunde Ojo, Ife Arowosoge and others alleged that their group is being sidelined on political appointments. Are they justified?
Put Ojudu in government, he will have his people. When Segun Oni was campaigning, they already had all the posts shared. I was not happy with Dr. Fayemi during his last regime, we had this Action Group of a thing, and I knew later that it was not a useful exercise. Why don’t you just sit down and talk? Why are we shouting? Why don’t we just call ourselves together? If Fayemi won’t go to Ojudu and others, why don’t they go and meet him at the Government House and talk things over?
I did something last time when those factions were coming up, I set up a group of elders and stakeholders in the state. When we instituted the group, we took the meeting to a former governor of Ondo State, Baba Bamidele Olumilua, we were meeting in his place. We invited Oni, Fayemi, Ojudu and MOB (Micheal Opeyemi Bamidele). May be Ojudu and MOB came once, other governors did not come. That is where we could have settled everything, we should have collapsed everything into a structure and there shall be no faction. Until we do that, factions will always exist. Everyone of us that stood for election the last time had supporters and that is what we call factions and that is what makes a party to grow. It is only when you combine these factions together that the party will grow.
If we are still going along the line of factions, the party will be getting powerless, membership will be reducing and opposition will have power on us and the person at the helms of affairs will have upper hand. What gave Fayemi the upper hand the last time was that he was a full-fledged minister. You don’t expect him to put his enemies in position of appointments. On employment, you don’t expect him to do that for his opponents, and even at that, some supporters of Segun Oni are currently on appointment under Fayemi just like some of Ojudu’s supporters. You can pick about five or six of them, that’s a superior move by Kayode Fayemi over and above them. They cannot win, the person that has the knife and the yam is the one that distributes in the executive system of governance. With their recent clarion call to save APC in Ekiti, do you think the party is in crisis in the state?
There is no day there won’t be crisis in a political party. A political party is not a spiritual organisation. In a party, when you talk of democracy, that means ideas should be respected. Until we come down and see ourselves as one, it is going to be degenerating. While I will not support them destroying the party and the government, I will also call Fayemi to be very mature and not allow his men to say ‘this is our government’. It is APC government, the way he started in appointing people from the other factions is what he should carry on. Factionalisation will not get us anywhere, Ekiti needs development, and the APC needs to be groomed. We still have PDP in Ekiti, we must make sure we grow the APC. Ekiti is still not industrialised, we should work together and allow the state to grow. Let us make best use of what is available. Kayode Fayemi is what is available now and we must cooperate with him.