The Chairman of Medical Guild, Dr. Babajide Saheed has appealed the Lagos State Governor, Dr. Akinwunmi Ambode to employ more medical and dental practioners to fill the gap created by the brain drain of doctors and due to the ongoing expansion of health facilities in Lagos State.
Also, Saheed has extended this appeal to the incoming Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, saying it was necessary to replace doctors that were leaving their duty posts in Lagos State to take up employment opportunities in developed countries, which offers better remuneration and welfare packages for them.
He made the appeal at a media briefing he addressed at the end of the 2019 Ordinary General Meeting (OGM) of the Medical Guild. The Medical Guild, which is an affiliate of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) is an association of medical doctors employed by the Lagos State Government.
According to Saheed, every day, doctors were leaving to seek greener pastures abroad while those left to operate the health facilities in the country were working under very stressful conditions as two doctors were doing the job of eight doctors.
Saheed said: “We are currently experiencing an acute shortage of manpower; we have gotten to a stage where two doctors are on call in the Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Theatre, Ward Management, Emergency and Labour Ward. The same thing is happening with General-Outpatient Departments where one doctor is attending to 70 to 120 patients every day.”
He lamented a situation whereby the same doctors that were providing care for patients at the Orile-Agege and Ifako Ijaye General Hospitals have been drafted to the newly refurbished Ayinke House.
He reasoned that it had become imperative to employ doctors to replace those that have left the service of the Lagos State Government, saying too much pressure that had been brought upon doctors that were still in service was resulting to mental health problems for the clinicians.
Based on the harsh working environment, Saheed lamented: “Many doctors in service are getting mental illness; doctors are dying.”