Ahead of the election into the executive council of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Bwari branch, Abuja, federal capital territory, a lawyer, Olalekan Oladapo, has called on his colleagues to join the war against the rising cases of violence and other criminal acts in Nigeria. Oladapo, who is contesting for the position of the branch’s secretary, said he is motivated by the desire to join hands with both government, non-governmental organisations, other professional bodies,  and individuals to sensitise the country against criminality. The election is scheduled to hold on Saturday, June 1. The principal partner of an Abuja-based Lekan Oladapo and Company, said lawyers have a huge responsibility to salvage the country by being conscientious in their personal and professional dealings. He said as users of the law instruments, the society relies on both the bar and the bench for true interpretation of laws and prompt judicial trials of criminals. As a leading branch of NBA, Oladapo noted that if elected as the scribe of the Bwari chapter, he will work with other members of the executive to give voice to the association in the war against criminality. He said; “In view of the high scale of violence in the nation both at domestic and public spaces, it is imperative to be involved in stemming the violence through effective implementation of Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act 2015. “I had once championed the cause by ensuring a viable partnership with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and NAPTIP. Our mission with NAPTIP was a synergy for a full scale implementation of VAPP ACT 2015. The essence of the partnership was for advocacy and sensitisation of the law to the members of public on how the law can assist in curbing violence and punishing offenders.” He urged all states within the north central zone to also domesticate the VAPP ACT 2015, adding that it has been observed that offenders within the FCT emanate from neighbouring communities in Nasarawa State where NAPTIP by the law cannot exercise power of investigation and prosecution imposed on it by the Act. “Also as part of our social services, we should work towards reaching out to the NHRC on redesigning National Policy on Human Rights for Business. It will be a framework for enforcing corporate social responsibility of business operators in Nigeria,” he added.