Jukun militia have killed at least 200 people and destroyed property worth millions during attacks on villages in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State. The local government chairman, Mr. Ibellogo Tor-Ityokaa, disclosed this yesterday while addressing a news conference in Zaki-Biam. He said the villages worst hit by the attacks included Tse-Ayali, Igbongom and Tse-Atsenga as well as Vaase, Namtaav and New City. The chairman accused his Wukari Local Government counterpart of aiding and abetting the armed Jukun militia to launch mayhem on Tiv settlements. Tor-Ityokaa expressed worry that after concerted peace efforts by his administration and the Benue State government, actions by his Wukari counterpart were aggravating the situation. He added that more villages were still being attacked by the Jukun militia and their herdsmen collaborators. Tor-Ityokaa, who blamed the attacks on politics, said from available intelligence report, the Tiv in Taraba State were being attacked because they refused to vote Jukun candidates during the last general elections. He said: “I think what is happening is well beyond an ordinary squabble as it is being reported. From intelligence report, we have gathered that the Tiv, especially those living in Wukari, are being killed over issues that have to do with politics. “The Tiv, according to information available to me, are being hunted over their refusal to vote for Jukun candidates during the elections, and my counterpart from Wukari is actively involved in these acts of infamy.” Tor-Ityokaa also accused Fulani insurgents of cashing-in on the fragile situation to invade sacked Tiv villages with their cattle. He said: “The Fulani had been looking for an opportunity to invade our communities with their cattle and the crisis has provided for them an ample opportunity to carry out such. As we speak, over 5,000 persons have been displaced as a result of this crisis which has placed on us aJukun militia have killed at least 200 people and destroyed property worth millions during attacks on villages in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State. The local government chairman, Mr. Ibellogo Tor-Ityokaa, disclosed this yesterday while addressing a news conference in Zaki-Biam. He said the villages worst hit by the attacks included Tse-Ayali, Igbongom and Tse-Atsenga as well as Vaase, Namtaav and New City. The chairman accused his Wukari Local Government counterpart of aiding and abetting the armed Jukun militia to launch mayhem on Tiv settlements. Tor-Ityokaa expressed worry that after concerted peace efforts by his administration and the Benue State government, actions by his Wukari counterpart were aggravating the situation. He added that more villages were still being attacked by the Jukun militia and their herdsmen collaborators. Tor-Ityokaa, who blamed the attacks on politics, said from available intelligence report, the Tiv in Taraba State were being attacked because they refused to vote Jukun candidates during the last general elections. He said: “I think what is happening is well beyond an ordinary squabble as it is being reported. From intelligence report, we have gathered that the Tiv, especially those living in Wukari, are being killed over issues that have to do with politics. “The Tiv, according to information available to me, are being hunted over their refusal to vote for Jukun candidates during the elections, and my counterpart from Wukari is actively involved in these acts of infamy.” Tor-Ityokaa also accused Fulani insurgents of cashing-in on the fragile situation to invade sacked Tiv villages with their cattle. He said: “The Fulani had been looking for an opportunity to invade our communities with their cattle and the crisis has provided for them an ample opportunity to carry out such. As we speak, over 5,000 persons have been displaced as a result of this crisis which has placed on us a heavy burden.” heavy burden.” The chairman of Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State Mr. Ibellogo Tor-Ityokaa has said at least 200 people in his domain were killed and property worth millions of naira destroyed allegedly by the Jukun militants following their repeated attacks on villages in the local government. Mr. Ibellogo Tor-Ityokaa disclosed… In “News” 90-year-old woman burnt   At least three Tiv people were killed as the Jukun militia at Kente in Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State launched attack on Atsenga village in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State.   In the attack, which started on Monday evening and ended yesterday… In “Metro and Crime” The Chairman of Ukum local government area of Benue state Hon. Tor-Tyokaa Ibellogo yesterday raised the alarm over continued killings and destruction of property in the area by Jukun militia. He disclosed that since the crisis broke up, no fewer than fifteen persons have been killed while properties worth millions… In “News”