No fewer than 12,000 out of the numerous admission seekers into the University of Ilorin are expected to be admitted for the 2019/2020 academic session, subject to confirmation by the National Universities Commission (NUC).
The university has begun to lobby the NUC for increase in the subsisting quota allotted to the institution that was initially pegged at 10,900. The move, according to the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Sulyman Age Abdulkareem, was to accommodate more admission seekers, particularly now that the university had become the most subscribed citadel of learning in the country. Speaking at the annual breaking of fast (Iftar) with journalists in Ilorin at the weekend, Abdulkareem said his goal was to have limitless admission quota, but for NUC and the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) regulatory activities, noting that allocation of admission quota for students was dependent on carrying capacity and facilities on each campus of the universities. The vice-chancellor, who said the main challenge his administration was grappling with was how to provide enough classrooms because of increase in the number of students on campus, noted that the university was currently making use of available large lecture theatres to accommodate students, adding that he had reached out to the Tertiary Education Fund (TETFUND) for support in building large lecture halls. He maintained that the institution had provided sufficient gadgets in the lecture theatres on campus to make lecture delivery easy for both lecturers and students. “My goal as vice-chancellor is to have limitless admission quota, but we know that admission is regulated by NUC, and they are usually based on facilities on campus.”
I must disclose that for 10 years, I was admission chairman for University of Ilorin. “So, I remember many times I carried messages to JAMB and NUC to solicit for increase in our quota. Even at that, today the normal quota is 10,900; but they are going to give room for alteration and allow us to admit for a session not more than 12,000 students. “Our biggest problem is the 100 Level courses that have large number of students, especially if you look at Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics and Biology that all 100 Level students must take in very large number. “Till now, we have been having problem. But lately this session, what we have been doing is using our big lecture theatre, multipurpose theatre and having enough chairs. I thought I was doing something new but when I got to London, I was told that this is the classroom of the future. If you go to that multipurpose theatre now, we have brought in enough gadgets to make lecture delivery easy for the lecturers and for the students to learn.”