The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the House of Representatives has said its investigations into activities of government has led to the recovery of stolen public funds in cash and assets to the tune of N72.5 billion and $1.8 million from ministries, departments, and agencies (MDAs) and have referred the cases to relevant anti-corruption agencies for necessary action. Chairman of the committee, Hon. Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers) disclosed this yesterday while presenting a record their stewardship since 2015. He revealed that in 2012, N1.1 billion was recovered by the committee from corrupt public officials in addition to one Peugeot 504 car, one pistol and huge number of live ammunition. According to the lawmaker, a total of 552 MDAs were queried by the committee and 512 queries were issued to public officials from the report of the Auditor-General of the Federation to the committee. He added that the committee had conducted 1,566 sittings on the report of the Auditor-General of the Federation to the committee and added that all the meetings were lifestreaming. Accompanied by other members of the committee, Chinda said that all machineries are now in place to launch the committee’s website and electronic query platform for easy reach to most of these MDAs them oversight constitutionally. The lawmakers said that the House committee has raised the standard in carrying out its constitutional duties of oversight of MDAs and had made recoveries of some public funds stolen by public officials that run into billions of naira and millions of dollars. While fielding questions from journalists on whether the Committee had compromised in the course of the assignment, he said that there is absolute transparency in the committee and that all the sittings were conducted in the public glare. “We worked tirelessly to raise the ante of the public accounts committee. Sometimes we stayed here (National Assembly) till about 9pm working. “The issue of being compromised never arose at all because in the past four years, we were concerned about getting results and that we have achieved”, he stated. He disclosed that the committee had also hoisted a website, which is functional and is in the process of launching its official magazine, which will be presented on Thursday. “You can go to our website and access information. It is very functional. And on Thursday, we shall launch the committee’s in-house magazine”. He commended members of the committee for working assiduously and passionately adding that the media coverage of their activities also contributed to the successes they recorded.