●Seeks total support from fans back home  National U-20 captain, Ikouwem Utin, has said the current team has what it takes to win the 2019 FIFA U-20 World Cup that will kick off in Poland from May 23 to June 15.
The Flying Eagles of Nigeria grouped with Qatar, Ukraine and USA in Group D of the championships will kick start their campaign with a game with Qatar U-20 team on Fraday, May 24.
Speaking with our correspondent from their camp in Germany, the captain of the team, Utin said they are all in high spirit and looking forward to winning the title for the first time for the country.
Nigeria has played in two finals, losing in 1989 to Portugal before losing to Lionel Messi-led Argentina team in 2005.
According to Utin, they already put the disappointment of failing to win the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations behind them and already looking forward to making the country proud in Poland.
“This is another opportunity and privilege for a player to create a great impression about their career by winning the trophy,” the former Enyimba defender said.
“We are very focused with total concentration because we want to win the trophy so as to improve on our professional career.
“When you plan for a thing and it didn’t work out, that doesn’t mean you are a failure, this is another opportunity for us to put in more efforts so as to do better in Poland.
“We already put that experience behind us and looking ahead to the World Cup in Poland, we must tell the world that we are better than what they saw at the AFCON.”
Speaking further, the newly signed Maccabi Haifa of Israel defender said a win in their opening game against Qatar will put them in a good position to excel at the competition.
While calling on all Nigerians across the world to keep on supporting the team, Utin said as a team they already concluded within themselves to give their all in Poland.
He added: “It’s all about 90 minutes; all the teams going to Poland for the World Cup are good teams because for them to have qualified, they are good.
“As a team, we believe in ourselves and we are going to take all the games as finals, we are going to come out with the needed points to go forward and move ahead from the group stage.” 