Committed to creating more opportunities for Edo youths to tap from Nigeria’s booming tech ecosystem for self-reliance, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki is subsidising the training of youths in in-demand tech fields, such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Science and Machine Learning.
The six-week training programmes, according to a statement, are being run by Curators University and held at the Edo Innovation Hub, Institute of Continuing Education (ICE), Wire Road, Benin City. At the last count, over 250 youths have been trained in the programme, which is also partly funded by Microsoft.
Young people who want to take the same courses in Lagos and Akure, Ondo State pay as much as N160,000 ($140), in cases where they don’t get sponsors or subsidised by Curators University. This makes Edo one of the most IT-friendly state in the country.
The programme, open for undergraduates and graduates, is being subsidised through Edo Jobs, Edo State’s skills development and job creation platform.
Senior Special Assistant to Edo State Governor on Jobs Creation and Skills Development, Mrs Ukinebo Dare, said the gesture is part of the governor’s promise to create at least 200,000 jobs in Edo State before 2020, noting that up to 90,000 jobs had been created so far.
“Students in the programme get to learn Python and R programming languages and are encouraged to continue with advanced level work at the end of the 6-week training,” she said. “By the fourth week, they are able to tackle real-life problems in data science and machine learning and are ready for the workplace.”
A beneficiary, Princess Oviawe, a 300 Level undergraduate at the University of Benin (UNIBEN), said that though she could code in HTML and CSS languages before the programme, she was able to learn Python and R, and is now confident of working as a freelancer even before graduation.
Joy Ativie, a graduate of Literature and English, said she did not know any code before joining the programme, noting, “My only exposure to code were these lines of number and letters I always saw online that looked like Greek.” Determined to reduce unemployment in Edo State, the state government through its job creation platform, EdoJobs, has concluded plans to launch the Edo Graduate Internship Programme (Edo-GIP). The programme, it was learnt, was a six-month paid intensive internship with the aim of providing young people with access to work experience.… In “News” Edo State Government in partnership with Microsoft and Tech4Dev firm is set to train at least 50,000 youths on digital literacy skills.   The initiative is aimed at equipping the youths with the skills to exploit the windows of opportunities in the country’s evolving technology eco-system, as well as to… In “News” The management of the Benin Electricity Distribution PLC (BEDC) has promised improved service delivery to its customers in Edo, Delta, Ondo and Ekiti states. Managing Director/CEO of the company, Funke Osibodu, made this pledge at the graduation ceremony of the third set of BEDC graduate trainees and second set of… In “Business”