 Management of Jubril Martins Memorial Grammar School, Iponri, Lagos State, has revealed how it arrested a gardener, Femi Aderonmu, for allegedly killing a 16-year-old senior secondary student, Adagun Rafiu.
The SS3 student was alleged to have been killed moments after sitting for a paper in the ongoing Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) conducted by the West Africa Examination Council (WAEC).
The secretary of the school, Dr. Ibrahim Abdullah, said the management, staff and students were still in shock over the incident.
Abdullah, however, faulted reports, which claimed that police arrested the gardener. The secretary stressed that it was the school which went after the suspect, grabbed and dragged him to the nearest police station.
Abdullah explained that just as the English Literature examination was about to be concluded on that day, report reached them that one of their students, Rafiu, fainted after engaging in a fight with Aderonmu, the gardener.
The secretary said: “The school quickly mobilised and rushed the student to the nearest hospital. Femi even went with us. A few minutes later, Femi went home; his home was not too far from the school. The student was confirmed dead at the hospital. We quickly sent for Femi, through the school security officers. They took him to the police station.”
Abdullah seized the opportunity to appeal to the school staff and students not to take laws into their hands. The secretary noted that the school, as a religious one, doesn’t joke with morality and honesty.
One of the students, who did not want his name mentioned, blamed Aderonmu for Rafiu’s death.
The student said: “No matter the level of offence or insult from Rafiu, we all see every ‘staff’ as father and mother. The school management does not tolerate indiscipline and deals with anyone found wanting in the area.
“Mr. Aderonmu should have reported Rafiu to the school authorities instead of waiting for him on the road. Rafiu always passed through his street whenever he was going home from school. I didn’t expect a man of 34 years to engage in fight with a boy of 16 years. Rafiu and his mates have just a few days left to say goodbye to the school and then this happened.”
The state Police Public Relations (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident, explained that on May 16, Iponri Police Station received a complaint from a school that on May 15, Aderonmu, a gardener with the said school, engaged Rafiu in a fight on Oke-Olu Road, Iponri.
He said: “In the process of the fight, the student fell down and became unconscious. He was rushed to Smith Medical Hospital where he later died. A witness account showed that the deceased was returning home with his friends after ‘writing WAEC,’ when the suspect blocked him on the way and pulled him down. He said that the deceased had insulted him before.
“Homicide detectives from the State Criminal Investigations and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, have visited the crime scene. The corpse of the deceased has been deposited at the mortuary for autopsy. The suspect was arrested and will be charged to court for murder.”