Ayomide A. Jide-Omole is an alumnus of Babcock University, Illisan, Ogun State. In this encounter with John Chikezie, she speaks on her passion for the law profession   Background My name is Ayomide A. Jide-Omole, an indigene of Ilesa-West, Osun State. I attended Babcock University where I graduated with a Second Class Upper Division in Private and Commercial Law in 2016.
I later proceeded to the Nigerian Law School, same year, at Bwari, Abuja campus where I got my B.L which certified me to practice law across the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 2017.  Career choice At the time I chose law, I wanted to beat the stereotype that my educational prowess in Mathematics and the sciences automatically made me a science student. I went to the art class and my first encounter with subjects like government, literature sold me completely on becoming a lawyer. More so, I was told law was one of the courses for the smartest people. I also loved the fact that lawyers have an awesome mastery of language and that increased the yearnings of becoming a lawyer. I actually saw the profession as one that was challenging, dynamic and noble; and anyone who knows me would agree that I love challenges. Today, I am totally grateful that I did, because I enjoy what I do so much and I look back and can’t imagine what I would have done better. The journey so far The journey since my call to Bar in 2017 has been bittersweet. I recently finished my mandatory service year in a law firm with bias in criminal law practice in Ibadan, Oyo state where I got a firsthand experience in the integral practice of the law. I would say that it has been worth my time, because it is with this experience, I have been able to mould my path and navigate my choices so far.  My area of law interest The area of law I have sought out to practice is Air and Space Law, popularly called Aviation Law. I got interested in it as far back as a child when I wanted to also become a pilot and my mother vehemently opposed. However, my peculiar interest was when I got involved in a space law competition during my undergraduate days at Babcock University in 2014. The competition was to hold in Scotland, but we were denied visas. Albeit, this was the first encounter and I have not looked back since then. Pupilage During my undergraduate days, I interned with the OAR Law Firm, Ikeja, Lagos, Oyewole and Co., Ikoyi, Lagos. I did my externship whilst in Law School with Idowu Sofola (SAN) & Co., Ikeja, Lagos. I also served in Bamidele Ogunjinmi & Co. during my National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Ibadan, Oyo State.  Law regulating passengers’ rights Realising that in global aviation, passengers are the most critical component of the airline industry. It is therefore imperative that certain laws and regulations would be put in place to ensure their safety, security and seamless airline operations. Passengers have their rights and obligations and these can be drawn from Part 19 of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Regulations 2015, Vol. 102. The regulation prescribes minimum rights and responsibilities of passengers and airline obligations to passengers where; a. There is an incidence of over booking and passengers are denied boarding against their will; b. A scheduled flight is delayed; c. A scheduled flight is cancelled; d. And Passengers fail to discharge their responsibilities. This can also be seen in the Montreal convention on air carrier’s liability which goes on further to include damage or loss of goods and so on. But the 1999 convention governs liability for injuries or death to passengers during international flights and it has a two year limit within which to bring a claim, which is shorter than many domestic jurisdictions. However, the right to compensation under the NCAA Regulations is on part 19.8 while rerouting and reimbursement is on part 19.9 which summarily stipulates immediate reimbursement in cash for domestic flights and reimbursement within 14 days for international flights. The NCAA has overtime expressed that in the business of air safety, they don’t take anything for granted. From tracking the minutest maintenance detail on the aircraft, to monitoring the health of the flight crew as well as the financial health of operators, which is in line with the International civil aviation organisation.  Regulatory framework for Air Passengers’ safety, protection In reference to the Part 19 of the NCAA regulations, however, just like every other facet of the law, education of the populace on these legislations is what is affecting the progression and exercise of same. Rarely would you see the Federal High Court, which has been mandated by Section 251(k) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), handle claims pertaining to passengers’ rights, reimbursement and damaged goods. And for those who know, the NCAA has a dispute resolution mechanism for passengers’ complaint against airlines in Part 19 where complaints are made by passengers. They investigate and then dismiss the complaints or recommend for mediation or administrative hearing procedure and at the conclusion of same, they make directives, such as the payment of compensations and such can still be challenged at the Federal High Court. I have a blog on aviation law and international development called -“the more to space than air” (www.moretospacethanair.blogspot) where I wrote extensively on this particular subject and other interesting topics such as the double standards of the regulators, airlines being the face of financial epilepsy, air carriers’ liability and so on.