Priscilla Ozashawav Odoyin is the newly crowned Queen of Alago. Alago is a sprawling ethnic group in Nassarawa State. The 24 years old beauty queen is a 400 level University of Jos Chemistry Undergraduate. In this interview with PAUL OGBOKIRI, she talks about the increasing need for self-reliance among young girls and how to curb materialism among the youths  Congratulations on your victory at the contest. Can we know how you emerged winner and who Miss Alago is? I am the queen, Precilia Uzashawa Odonye from Nassarawa State, Alago by tribe. I emerged as the winner through my confidence and ability to answer my questions very well; that was what contributed to my being the winner. I feel humbled by the victory and see it as a call for selfless service to my people.  How many other persons contested the position with you? We were 13 in number. And how do you feel about your victory? I feel very excited, I feel delighted and I am happy.  What is the duty or the role of the Queen of Alago?  My role is to bring promotional opportunities to the Alago community and to bring the ladies who think they are not of any use to the society, to open their eyes to bring out the inner beauty inside of them and to let them know that they can do better than what they are doing now. They have more value. I also want to promote increased self-reliance among the youths generally with particular focus on the female folks.  Do you have any programme for girl-child education? Yes I do. My programme for the girl-child is to go to schools and bring them up in a way that they will goal oriented. Also, I want to ensure that whatever they desire to be, and their parents do not have the resources to help them realize their dreams, we will help them to seek for scholarships, follow it up so that they can get it. With that, we will be able to achieve what we want to encourage the girl-child to pursue because some of them stopped at secondary school level. We will also encourage these ladies to go beyond that level of education. Skills acquisition is also another area of focus. The promotion of skills for employment generation is another area of focus that will be given good attention. There are so many things to learn and create employment from. I have identified areas like hair dressing, tie and dye, food and beverage processing, catering generally, and making of bags, beads and a whole lot of areas  Have you interacted with any government official, functionary or traditional ruler at any level to promote your goal? Yes I’ve done that. I have spoken to some of our traditional rulers; I have spoken to Honorable Ogochi Onawo who is a politician, and so many others. I shall be visiting them to tell them about my vision and solicit their support towards achieving the goal. We shall also promote our agenda using various mass media channels and take advantage of our evolving global village.  We are aware that the world is dynamic and change does happen faster than we anticipate. We will take counsel on how best to use the internet and social media for societal growth and development while shunning vices associated with the internet. Promotion of a crime-free society and how best youths can support unity and love among our people is also on our agenda.  What are your hobbies?  I love to sing and I love modeling because it gives me the opportunity to reach out to people. I love travelling and adventures.   Do you have any person as your role model, whether historical or present that you look up to as a mentor or a role model?  My mother is my role model. She has influenced me positively in many ways. Aside my biological ties to her, I give her the credit for my success in the race for this crown. She is never tired of impacting on me. I am eternally grateful to her for all she has done. She is one in a trillion.  What was your growing up like?  Growing up was pretty idyllic. It was full of love; my parents were very supportive and I had older and younger siblings that were always around me. My dad loves children so I didn’t lack anything as a child.  Did your parents support your participation in the pageant?  Yes, I got full support from my parents even when I almost gave up, they encouraged me.   Are you in a relationship?  No.   What’s your plan for marriage?   I plan to build a godly home and be in a fulfilling marriage which will leave both my partner and I satisfied and happy.   Lastly, what is your advice to younger girls of your age that can get emancipated from societal ills and embrace a better future? What advice do you have for them and what strategy do you think they should adopt aside education?  I want to advise them to stop chasing unnecessary things. They should channel their time and energy to areas and activities that will promote their economic and career well-being and protect their future.  They should wake up to the reality that time wasted cannot be regained so they should use their time wisely by focusing on what will make them better women and even if you are not educated, there is something you can do with your life.  I strongly advise young ladies to stop looking out for a man that is rich because I have heard some of them saying they cannot marry a man who is not rich. Why can’t you, the lady, be rich yourself, why not make this money through decent and lawful means independent of a man?
Some ladies have come up to say their future husbands must be rich guys. They say they can’t marry a poor man. Are you going to remain single for the rest of your life if a rich man doesn’t come for you?  I am joining to discourage this mentality for materialism and promote a standard where ladies will be counted in good numbers among those championing a better society.  So I want them to wake up and do something for themselves. Skills acquisition is an example of something you can do to start up somewhere. Not everyone who is successful today went through school and I believe that when you start up something, God will uplift you.