At least, 40 people were feared killed while scores were declared missing following fierce attacks allegedly launched by Cameroonian gendarmes (paramilitary group) at Abana, a fishing community on the fringes of Bakassi peninsula.  Speaking with journalists in his palace, the village head of Ifa Ikot Akpan in Uyo Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, Etteidung Edem Ebong, said several others were abducted and detained at a detention facility in Cameroon.  One of the fishermen, who escaped the incident and fled to his community in the coastal community of Uruan Local Government Area, Etebong Bassey, said that the unresolved problem of multiple taxations for Akwa Ibom and Cameroonian authorities triggered the fracas.  He said: “As fishermen, we have been paying multiple taxes to different authorities for Akwa Ibom and Cameroon for several years now and the youth’s became angry and protested over the issue. “So the Gendarmes cash in on the protest and invaded the communities within the Shell Creek area.”  According to him, those affected hail from several Akwa Ibom communities including Ifa Ikot Akpan, Ekpene Ibia, Ikot Akan, Ikot Otoinye, Nnaenine and Ikot Inyang, all in Uyo and Uruan local government areas.  He said: “Three days ago, some fishermen who are indigenes of Uyo and Uruan local government areas, who visited home for a funeral ceremony, were forced to return on their way back to Abana, when they got a distress call that their homes in Abana had been invaded and several people killed, some abducted and property destroyed.” However, the monarch appealed to the state and Federal Government for urgent intervention in order to rescue the missing victims.  He said: “Yes, the victims returned to my palace here with tales of woes. They told me their settlements at Abana had been destroyed with over 40 of them killed, while several others were arrested on trump up allegations of starting the problem that degenerated into a full blown crisis.  “Therefore, I want to use this opportunity to appeal to government to kindly look into the crisis and communicate to appropriate authorities in the area to help release our people from captivity and save their lives as many of those affected are from my domain.”  However, Pastor Ekikere Umoh, the Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the state Deputy Governor, Obong Moses Ekpo, whose office is in-charge of boundary matters, said “the office of the Deputy Governor has no business with communal wars”. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Odiko Macdon, did not pick his calls to react to the matter.