The report of overwhelming cases of malpractice with active involvement of candidates’ parents as reported in the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) is, indeed, an indictment of the nation’s educational system. Ordinarily, as a qualifying examination into the nation’s higher institutions (universities, polytechnics/monotechnics and colleges of education), it is expected that the UTME would serve as a strong connecting rod and bridge building for the institutions. In fact, JAMB, the examination body conducting the yearly qualifying examination, took the right step this year before releasing the results to subject the examination procedures to some scrutiny with a view to ascertaining the degree of success of the structures, infrastructure, policies and processes put in place to checkmate the rot in the system in line with the Board’s set ambitions and goals. The attendant brazen push of ‘must pass at all-cost syndrome’ of candidates and some parents characterising this year’s UTME is not only a pointer to the desperation of Nigerians for fraudulent practices and failure to instil error-free examination system, it is an aggregation of an examination under siege. Apart from the fact that examinations, most often, are not the true test of candidates’ ability, apparently because of the associated inhibitions, the degree of hitches that marred the just-concluded UTME, as complained by candidates including the breakdown of internet server in many Computer- Based-Test (CBT) Centres, failure of computer to recognise some candidates’ finger prints for which such candidates were denied the chance to write the examination, as well as malfunction of computer systems and the use of mercenaries to write examination for candidates has further eroded the capacity of JAMB as it also whittle down the entire examination system, essentially at this stage of our national life. The Chief Executive/ Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, revealed how some elite institutions that charge exorbitant school fees, which they made the parents to part with in the name of secondary education, had become active in the procurement of ‘best results’ for their students at all costs. He lamented that unfortunately these characters have permeated the system such that it has become difficult to confront and dislodge them. It is interesting to hear that JAMB through operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the police arrested 100 persons nationwide during the UTME, written by over 1.8 million candidates between April 11 and 18, for alleged involvement in all shades of malpractices, especially as impersonators and mercenaries. It is indeed a welcome development that JAMB, in its avowed commitment to crack down examination cheats, is determined to prosecute the offenders through a leading Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) hired by the Board so as to serve as deterrent to others. Now that some 116 CBT centres had either been delisted or suspended for registration- related misconduct by JAMB, their owners and operators should also be prosecuted, because it is through such punitive measures that the examination body would be able to restore sanity to the system. Again, since there is no doubt that examination malpractice over the years is a cankerworm that has eaten deep into Nigerian system, the administration of UTME and other examinations for that matter, should be seen by stakeholders as collective effort and crucial national assignment that deserve utmost credibility and integrity. Though pathetic, the concerns raised by JAMB that the menace of examination malpractice could still not be stamped out, partly because of the fact that out of the 702 CBT centres used across the country, only 16 are owned by JAMB, while 223 are public institutionowned, should be addressed without delay by the Board. According to Oloyede, the largest percentage of these centres is owned by private individuals, who can be regarded as genuine contributors, whilst a few has inimical vested interests which may be at variance with those of the Board or the nation at large. It is on this premise that rather than for JAMB to remit funds, like it remitted N5 billion to the Federal Government this year, the examination body should spend such money to establish or set up more CBT centres across the country. Though, the delay in releasing this year’s UTME results, unlike the previous editions, is not famous among a cross section of the Nigerian public, it would not also have been out of place for the examination body to subject the procedures to some scrutiny, if that would save it and the nation from the perpetual embarrassment the menace of malpractice has put the country. Nigeria and its agencies should rise as serious entity to frontally confront examination malpractices in order to safeguard the integrity of the nation’s examination system and education in particular. But, in achieving this, not only does the examination body need the cooperation of all Nigerians to sanitise the system and ensure that things are done right, it is also impeccable for the Board that right things are done as well.