The retention of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, by President Muhammadu Buhari as head of the apex bank for another term of five years has been roundly applauded by so many Nigerians. The ovation that has greeted the president’s decision is an affirmation, and a testimony to the fact that Emefiele has managed and elevated the nation’s monetary environment to a tolerable level. The president’s unexpected step is also a break from the tradition of the past. With the confirmation of the re-appointment by the Senate, Emefiele is the first CBN governor since the inception of the current democratic process in 1999 to have had the opportunity to serve again after exhausting his first term. The second break this time around has to do with the president himself, who appears to be hitting the ground running with regard to his second tenure considering the pains it took him to form his cabinet, waiting for an upward of six months in his first dispensation as a civilian president. Before his appointment in 2014, Emefiele was the Managing Director, Zenith Bank Plc. Since he came onboard in 2014, the CBN has initiated several economic policies in the areas of monetary policy, foreign exchange market, and agricultural programmes, among others. With him in the saddle for the next five years, the nation’s economy is certain to witness sustainability of policies embarked upon during his first tenure. Now that speculation over his future had been laid to rest, nothing more is as important as getting to the root of programmes and policies that have endeared the apex bank governor to the hearts of the president, farmers, financial experts as well as horde of observers. The CBN governor got into office at a time Nigeria’s monetary policies were in disarray with dubious authorisation coming from all government corners, ‘hacking’ into the nation’s treasury especially in the last days of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration.  Ironically, for a president who came into power on the premise of fighting all forms of corruption that his predecessor’s administration was accused of, the retention of Emefiele defied book makers’ expectations as everyone thought he would be among the first set of people to be swept out.  From what is obvious today, President Buhari might have seen what others didn’t see in Emefiele, who has succeeded in not only stabilising the naira, driving inflation from all high 19 per cent to a little over 11 per cent but also injecting life into the economy by initiating series of policies.  One key factor in every economy is monetary stability, which Emefiele has achieved. President Buhari’s decision was certainly hinged on competence, performance, and pure distillation devoid of sentiments.  Under his leadership, CBN established uniform exchange rates in the market leading to the elimination of exchange rate volatility and also deepening the foreign exchange market including initiating currency swap between Nigeria and Republic of China worth about $2.5 billion. These steps as well as others also freed the economy for diversification, enhanced investor confidence and Diaspora remittances.  The currency swap agreement is designed to aid trade transactions between China and Nigeria and remove the need to first source for United States dollars before payments for transactions involving the two countries.  The centralised biometric identification system for the banking industry, otherwise known as Bank Verification Number (BVN), has gone a long way in humbling corrupt Nigerians especially politicians and government officials.  Among other things, his uncompromising and sweeping ban on some 43 items such as toothpick, pencil, textile materials and palm oil from forex allocation are some of the daring steps that endeared Emefiele to President Buhari.  No doubt, the CBN governor’s role in Federal Government’s economic diversification programme is also worthy of mention. With agriculture being the closest to the president’s heart in this regard, the smooth implementation of the Anchor Borrowers Programme (APB) has been an addendum to the economic diversification agenda.  Under his watch, the ABP, meant to increase agricultural output and significantly improve capacity utilisation of processors, has created economic linkage between smallholder farmers and large-scale processors.  It has also helped to increase banks’ financing to the agricultural sector, reduce agricultural commodity importation and conserve external reserves, increase capacity utilisation of agricultural firms, create new generation of farmers, entrepreneurs and employment.  The policy has also reduced the level of poverty among smallholder farmers, and also assist rural smallholder farmers to grow from subsistence to commercial production levels.  We commend the Senate for the speed at which the lawmakers confirmed Emefiele’s re-appointment. It is laudable that the senators set aside politics in the parliamentary process as the economy does not recognise colour or party.  We also task the CBN governor to see the renewal of his appointment as a call for more service. While we expect him to improve on the existing policies, come up with new and creative ones, we also call on Mr. President to follow up on this by appointing tested hands and professionals as members of his cabinet without wasting much time like what played out in the past.