 There is no gainsaying that the task of making Destination Nigeria a thriving tourist haven has in recent years suffered some lull with the Ministry of Information and Culture, which is charged with tourism development and promotion losing the initiative and the private sector left to their own devices.
However, the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), led by its Director General, Otunba Segun Runsewe, has stepped into the vacuum as it last week harped on a new initiative to galvanise the culture and tourism sector through a new project, which he tagged: Rebranding Culture and Tourism in Africa: Nigerian Vision.
The kernel of this new initiative, according to him, is re-awakening the consciousness of the private sector; that is the various stakeholders in culture and tourism to the task of promoting Destination Nigeria through a concerted effort, with NCAC as the linchpin for this new initiative.
To this end, a new pact was signed between NCAC and stakeholders with a commitment by both parties to deploy resources and materials within their disposal towards developing and promoting Nigeria tourism by evolving a rebranding nexus for the sector.
Speaking at the event hosted in Abuja to unfold this new scheme, Runsewe informed the stakeholders at the event that time is now to rejuvenate Nigeria tourism project, with NCAC championing the course.
To this end, he disclosed that his management team took a trip to Dubai last month to understudy the country’s tourism for the purpose of inspiring Nigeria tourism into a leading destination in Africa.
After the screening of a 30 minutes video of the familiarisation trip, Runsewe took to the podium to unfold the new initiative. Disclosing to his rapt audience that:
‘‘It is a specially designed product to reawaken the consciousness of Nigerians to what this industry can do.
‘‘It is time we all wake up to find out what is wrong, to this end, the entire management of NCAC took a trip to Dubai to find out what is the problem with Nigeria and what is it that we can do.
‘‘This industry has lacked leadership, anywhere you go in the world this industry is doing well. So what is the problem with us?’’ Then he added: ‘‘We must find a solution as we all have a role in this industry and we must all play our different roles.’’
Therefore, he said it is time for concrete action and no more rhetoric. ‘‘We have all been speaking English but today we are going into the practical aspect of our industry,’’ stressing that this is a call for a new beginning for Africa and Nigeria.
He called for urgency and the need for the stakeholders to come up with a world class package on Nigeria: ‘‘We need to think outside the box and I believe the time is now to take the cultural heritage of Africa to the world and Nigeria must take the lead.’’
He then called for all the tourism stakeholders and the Nigeria media to come together to make a difference. He also called for a new brand and product creation.
Runsewe described the epoch making initiative as a revolution that is geared at transforming Nigeria tourism, therefore, he urged all the stakeholders present at the event to see themselves as the new vanguard for the propagation of the new ethos.
He charged them to imbibe the message and run with it while seeking to enlist others into the vanguard.
For this to succeed, he called for an action plan, which should include adoption of a policy and work plan with time lines.
Next step
Going forward, a committee is expected to be put in place while the forum will be conveyed again to set in motion the necessary work plan. Also, Runsewe disclosed some of the concise steps that should be taken to achieve the goal of this new initiative and the role that NCAC will play as he said that:
‘‘There is no doubt that the dream of project Destination Nigeria requires all levels and different tiers of managers, policy makers and investors in Nigerian culture sector to first be sensitised to the vision then exposed to the cultural reality of other nations that have successfully embarked on cultural transformation and finally become disciples and knowledgeable drivers through application and implementation.’’
To this end, he disclosed that NCAC will in the course of the year sponsor commissioners of tourism and culture in the 36 states of the country, including the travel media and some of the stakeholders on a familiarisation tour to Dubai as part of the process of entrenching this new initiative.
The President of the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), Alhaji Rabo Saleh, presidents of some of the associations present and different stakeholders, at the event expressed their views on the project, commending the new initiative and pledging their commitment towards its implementation while making different suggestions geared towards the successful execution of the new pact.
What came to the fore at the end of the event was the fact that Destination Nigeria needs a new impetus and the process for that has begun with Runsewe leading this new initiative. To stoke its embers to the fullest, the private sector will now have to step to the driver’s seat and drive the entire process with NCAC providing the platform.
How far this can go is left to be seen and only time will tell how committed the stakeholders are as it is not enough to sign the document pledging their resolve rebrand Destination Nigeria but it is what they all do thereafter that will count.