Colonel Tony Nyiam (rtd) was a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee (PAC) that packaged the 2014 National Conference. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on the state of the nation, especially the security challenge faced by Nigeria and how the Federal Government can address the issue   What is your take on the level of insecurity in Nigeria, considering several attacks, killing and kidnapping in different parts of the country?
What a joke governance in Nigeria has become, especially in the two related primary responsibilities of government, which are national security and the welfare of the citizens. What does one expect from a political economic clime, where lip service is paid to the wise exhortation that thinking through a problem before embarking on its resolution is unavoidable. The near failed state experiences we are having should be expected in a nation state, where most members of its ruling class do not know that it is imperative to commence any action with first putting in place, a fit for purpose structure of how to carry out the action.
Most of the members of the ruling class do not know the difference between political economic structure and the word structure, when used in the sense of physical infrastructure. It should be expected from a ruling class that is most responsible for the failed state, which they have brought to Nigeria state. For instance, there is the rulers’ recurring none compliance to the guiding universal principles of good governance. We have been brought down into a type of breaking down of norms of democracy. We have sunk down to the point that one would say there is now an increasing move from liberal democracy to a dictatorial regime of a strong man’s autocratic rule in Nigeria. As a retired military officer, what do you think is the nature of the security threat Nigerians are facing presently?
It is a craftily camouflaged military siege to the original land owners of Nigeria by the people’s enemies. The encirclement and infiltration of most Nigerian communities is an excellent characterisation of the threat we presently face. Let’s see how this is so. First, is the rising proliferation of arms in the hands of non-state personnel. The danger arising from this was further compounded by the entry into the Nigeria landscape of high grade military weapons, which were stolen from the overthrown Colonel Muammar al-Gaddafi-government security forces in Libya. This is because most of the members of the Gaddafi’s guard were from Mali, our neighbouring states of Niger and Chad and to a small extent, Nigeria.
Secondly, is the rising and still fast rising population of the residents and illegal immigrants into Nigeria, especially the influx from Niger and Chad through the North-West and North-East regions of Nigeria to the southern states. Thirdly, the attendant high number of jobless youths, many of whom are because of lack of education or skills in trades are unemployable. This is an already dangerous situation, which is being further compounded by the takeover of jobs from human beings by technology. Fourth, is the growing revolt of the Talakawas (the poor) against the parasitic Northern elites, who have subjected their people to poverty and deprivation. This has led to the actualisation of the cliché that “the chicken has come home to roast.”
The fifth, is the radical factor of fundamentalists waging Jihad against Western civilization influence, and the Muslims who have been accordingly corrupted by Western influence. Majority of these fundamentalists are against secular governments. These fundamentalists are for a return to the pristine form of Islam, which was practiced by Prophet Mohammed (Peace Be to Him). This group of radicals never accepts a circular constitution. They insist on being governed under the law of Sharia, which to them is superior to all other constitutional systems. The doctrine of Salafiyya, which the Egyptian originated Muslim Brotherhood follows, is attractive to many Nigerians fundamental Muslims. The Libyan Islamic fighting group known in Arabic as Al Jama’aal-Islamiyyah al-mugatilah bi-Libyan and the Salafist Group for call and combat, whose aim is to overthrow the secular government in Algeria, have also impacted on the radicalisation of our many far Northern hitherto idle hands.
It needs to be remembered that Al-Queda organisation in the Islamic Maghreb originated from the Salafists, earlier mentioned. There is an established network for sending these North African Islamic militants to train willing Nigerian youths. Nigerian members of this Salafists despise also the emirs. Sixth, is that the Bororo-Fulani herdsmen reliance on their rapid deployment armed mercenaries to carrying out on their behalf, revenge attacks in the competition for natural resources war they found themselves in Nigeria.
These well trained armed men are pre-positioned all over West Africa, particularly in Niger and Chad for hit and run actions in and out of Nigeria. Another issue is kidnapping and other forms of criminality. There is also the potential for challenges that could arise from aggrieved Nigerians whose grievances emanate from grievous social injustice. For example, when elections are not free and fair, the people automatically become aggrieved and it is from this pool of aggrieved people that you can have violent insurgents. What do you think are the main causes of the insecurity problems in Nigeria?
The origins of most of the problems we face particularly the national security challenges, are caused by the political economic system we have adopted. There is an obvious mismatch in our responses to national security challenges. For example, political economy caused national security threats are being addressed wrongly in a fire brigade approach. This is why after each national security failure, we go through the ritual of Aso Rock meeting in which the commander-in-chief dishes out order like a battalion commander.
Political economy-generated challenges need a systematic or structural reform response. Such strategically induced challenges cannot be addressed solely in military tactical operational way. This error has been continued because most of Nigeria’s higher security managers appear not to know the  difference between tactics and strategy. This is why some Nigerians who are clever by half are being mistaken for strategists. A strategist is one who has puts his strategy into practice in such a way that you can see his work and achievement even after 50 and 100 years.
Two examples of strategists we ever had in Nigeria were Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Sheik Usman Dan Fodio. The Sokoto Caliphate, which Dan Fodio built over 100 years ago, is still waxing strong. That is why it is such a pity that Kano Emirate that has been revered within and outside Nigeria has been divided by the action of a governor. We need to look not only at our noses but beyond the tips of the noses. Our continuous novel grazing is leading us to respond to national security challenges in a way that is not sustainable. How do you think the insecurity challenges can be addressed?
To deal with the nature of the national security challenges, I have stated earlier, it is imperative that President Muhammadu Buhari embarks on constitutional reforms to ensure that the national security architecture that we come up with has the buy-in of the different communities that make up Nigeria. The first line of defence in any homeland security has to be led and manned by the residents of that community.
We must move from a foolish to a full proof remedy of Nigeria’s security architecture. The first thing to consider is that there is a direct relationship between the enduring national insecurity we are facing now and the not-fit-for-purpose 1999 Nigeria Constitution. What we have is clearly a play out of the contradictions inherent in the present constitution. For example, apart from the opening line “We the people,” when it was a rogue military regime imposed constitution, there is also lip service description of state governors as the chief security officers of the federating units. This is another lie as no governor or state government has armed security personnel under their command.
The present national security order negates a primary national security principle, which recognises the people of our different communities as valuable partners in ensuring the inclusive, participatory and accountable to the local homeland security architecture. There is need for us to move away from the colonial hangover armed forces of occupation approach to the deployment of state armed personnel. For too long the locals are alienated from their homeland security strategy, plans and execution.
There is urgent necessity for a national security architecture which incentivises the buy-in of the local population in their homeland defence. I have for decades been advocating for not only state police but the United States (U.S.) kind of states’ National Guard or the French Gendarme. There is need for this first line defence made up of a paramilitary force that bridges the gap between civilian security agencies such as police and the armed military forces. What are the requirements you think will enable government to achieve this?
All I have said so far is actually that it is imperative that President Buhari puts into action his statement that Nigeria need to return to true federalism. It is by so doing that the national security architecture I am suggesting will have the constitutional authority and give it the force of the law. And this is why we welcome President Buhari’s new posture and indeed it is only through giving Nigeria a new constitution that complies with the principles of federalism that he will leave a legacy.
The massive employment of our youths into the planned expanded national security establishment been advocated, is itself one of the solutions to the national security problems. There is also the potential for human capital development. This can be achieved by encouraging each soldier to be trained in another skill other than his military training. Trade training such as in modern agriculture of arming techniques. What are the strategies you expect the President to put in place to achieve positive results in fighting insecurity?
There is need for at least increment in national security personnel across the board – armed forces, intelligence and police. The personnel have to be increased in four-fold. Why the need for this?
Because the number of people we have to provide Nigerians with security and safeguard their lives and properties is too low compared to the population. There is therefore a need for President Buhari and his government to openly declare that we are in a war situation. And that is why his budget has to be a war time budget. There is need for funds to pay for the increment of troops we need to put in place in the next three years.
President Buhari needs to be encouraged and persuaded that it is really in his own self interest and really the interest of the Fulani people he is trying to defend if he comes up with a structure that is pro-coexistence of the people. We must encourage President Buhari to walk his call for return to true federalism. I do hope the commander-in-chief is beginning to appreciate what I have been saying for years that there is a direct relationship between the enduring national insecurity we are facing and the extant, not-fit-for-purpose 1999 Constitution. We cannot continue to address the Nigerian political-economic system caused threats to our national security solely by the recurring fire brigade responses. We are urgent for example long overdue in the need for the people’s active and willing participation in the defence of their homeland. What is your take on the recent statement by former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Fulanisation of Nigeria?
There is observable high level of mutual distrust between the original land owners of Nigeria and the settlers in their midst. There is emerging alliance of the South-West, South-East, South-South, North-Central or Middle Belt and the Hausa people on one side versus the armed Fulani herdsmen invaders. Former President Obasanjo’s crying out against what he sees as the ongoing Islamisation and Fulanisation of Nigeria in particular and West Africa as a whole, and the Ohanaeze, Afenifere and PANDEF support for Obasanjo and the fact that almost all the critics of the former president’s remarks are almost all Fulani, have all collectively seen to the widening of the gap through which Nigeria’s enemy within and their external bosses would penetrate our fold and kill more thousands of innocent Nigerians.
Our continuing to be afraid of each other is what our enemies desire and are exploiting to their warfare advantage. There is now an opportunity for a strategic resolution of the recurring Nigerian security problems. The rare occasion is now made available by the unprecedented national insecurity development. And this is by virtue of the irony that the terrorist chickens have come home to roost amongst those who believe they are born to rule others against their wishes and in the sacred cows region of the North-West of Nigeria.
The Niger and Chad foot soldiers who far North political elite use to either inflate the population of North-West region during national headcounts or to rig presidential elections in Nigeria are now forcefully demanding pay back for the services they have rendered to the parasitic Fulani elite. Don’t mind the far North leaders pretexts; they are facing the greatest danger to their lives from the talakawas.