Art has often been defined as “the products of human creativity,” or “the creation of beautiful or significant things.” Pre-historic art, usually divided into Paleolithic, Mesolithic and Neolithic arts gave the world an appreciable understanding of what transpired before the evolution of civilization. Indeed, history has it that seventeen thousand years ago, “humans painted realistic images of bulls, bison, stags, horses, and other animals on the walls of the caves of Lascaux, in France.” Over the years therefore, paintings developed into theater art where stage plays began to be used as a means to enhance national unity, create harmony as well as dissect social ills because theater, in particular, has access to the mind, and emotively, one can re-arrange and re-orientate humanity towards achieving a common goal. There is no doubt that creative art has grown phenomenally over the past years and if Nigeria can tap into the enormous talents that abound in that sub-sector of the economy, then one should be looking forward to the theatre contributing to the nation’s GDP and raising the bar in terms of import and export of arts. And talking about the GDP, if piracy had allowed for effective and efficient calculation of the gross earnings of the Nollywood industry, the country’s Gross Domestic Product would be enhanced. However, before the advent of Nollywood in Nigeria, stage play was used to mirror societal ills and over time, its impact became manifest as many communities and societies became aware that some of their cultures were distasteful to civilization and they responded accordingly, which is the reason why many obscene cultures have long been abandoned. Stage plays were therefore one of the most effective means of carrying messages to communities and the Nigerian society in the seventies and early eighties. It would be recalled that the late Hubert Adedeji Ogunde, a man who could be described as the father of Nigerian theatre took the world by storm with scintillating displays on the stage. Till date, even though he died in 1990, his place in the theatre world remains unoccupied. Such was the impact of Ogunde that he won several laurels for the country, even when civilization was yet to hit the Nigerian art sector, and Nollywood was a distant way in coming. It was therefore, a sight to behold penultimate week when theater arts students of the University of Calabar took to the stage of Chinua Achebe theatre hall to entertain guests from all walks of life with their drama piece, “the Crippled Giant.” According to Kingsley Oyong Akam, a lecturer in the Department of Theatre Arts and Carnival Studies of the University who wrote the script, “The Crippled Giant” dramatizes the efficacy of Eshua and Ekpa ritual dances of Boki in central Cross River State. The play, Kingsley said, “is a satire of the Nigerian nation and the play is set in Boki.” The play examines the universal themes of greed, corruption, injustice and man’s inhumanity to man. The play was a “re-enactment of indigenous African Theatre encapsulated in total theatre of the Boki nation in action, dialogue, set, costume/ make up, movement, spectacles, songs and dances,” Kingsley told our correspondent. The play told the story of a great kingdom among the comity of kingdoms known for its great exploits and resourcefulness and was seen by other kingdoms as the “Giant.” It source of procreation was the “Honey” which was always shared to every member of the kingdom on the day of “procreation festival.” According to the writer, due to colossal failure of leadership, few individuals; especially those at the helm of affairs in the kingdom seized the opportunities and connived among themselves to lick the “honey” and also replaced it with filthy waters. “Their actions,” Kingsley insisted, “provoked the gods, leading to the cracks of the pot.” The kingdom then began to face different plagues and calamities which cut across bareness, lack of rain fall, crop withering and streams drying up. The play began at about 8.07 pm in the evening with various elders “licking” the honey. The “honey”, going by the drama, is the wealth of Nigeria. Those who had the opportunity to lick it, ahead of the festival where others would have benefitted from, were the council members of the King. This caused confusion among the council members who exchanged blames, insults and crabbiness and the situation almost got to a head with an attempt to exchange blows, but for the intervention of the King. The action of the King’s advisers brought curses on the kingdom with women as victims as they could not procreate, and rain holding up its bowels in anger. Confusion invaded the King’s palace and it took the Chief Priest to bring solution before rain fell and women celebrated the fruit of their wombs. The king, when asked why he was not happy in the midst of bareness and famine retorted angrily; “How can I be happy when my kingdom is suffering from bareness?” This, indeed, is the question that leaders of Nigeria should ask and find motivation in searching for answers. For the King, the motivation to search for answers to return joy to his palace was the fact that “the blacksmith will never stop hitting the iron until he gets the right shape,” referring to his penchant to identify and solve the problem of his people before he can be the true leader of his people. The play, as described by another Lecturer in the department of Theatre Art and Carnival Studies, Mrs. Affiong Effiom, “is a metaphor of what this country should do.” Mrs. Effiom, who was part of the processes that ensured the play “met quality assurance,” and who also joined in previewing the play said: “The writer used some nuances to depict the corruption in the play, but despite the solution, justice must be done.” The genuine intention of the play, although set in a village scene, was and remains corruption which has betrayed Nigerians, and portrayed the country in bad light among comity of nations. The giant nature of the country has been battered while the wealth of the nation is open to a few people in power who continue to “lick” it endlessly. Nigeria, from the play, has carried a name that was meant to dominate the continent but because of corruption, has fought image war on the international scene, while fighting militants and terrorists within the country. Kingsley, a graduate of Theater Arts of the University of Calabar, who enhanced his academic pursuit at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, also holds certificate in Chemotography from the National Film Institute.