The Federal Government has said the new national minimum wage of N30,000 became effective from April 18, 2018. Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, who made this known on yesterday in Abuja, noted that state governments and employers, who were yet to commence payment of the new wage by May ending were already in deficit.  According to him, arriving at the new minimum wage was a tortuous and excruciating journey, which he described as an achievement for the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.  Reacting to fears that some state governors may not pay the new wage, Ngige said the National minimum wage law is now a national law and no governor can say he will not pay. “Issue of national minimum wage is item 34 on the exclusive legislative list of the third schedule of the Nigerian Constitution. Issue of labour is also there and not on the concurrent list. If it is on the concurrent list, then they can make their own state Assembly laws on that. Every state government is now owing workers if they have not start paying N30,000. They are owing workers effective from 18th of April, a new minimum wage,” he said.  The minister said consequential effects of how the wage adjustment would affect other cadre of the workforce are already being discussed as a committee has been set up to design a new salary template.  “We are now in a committee working out a new template with which we will adjust upward the consequential adjustment upstairs for those already earning above N30,000. The minimum wage is for the most vulnerable down the ladder and that is the man on grade level one, step one. So, you must consequentially adjust for the man on grade level two, grade level three, grade level four and five, because that man on GL 1, step 1 has overtaken them with his new payment. That is what we refer to as consequential adjustment. This consequential adjustment touches more the people on the lower ladder and we are working it out.”  Ngige said some employers in the private sector adjusted immediately because it is easier for them to do, saying in the government sector, the bureaucracy and bottleneck of government is responsible for the delay.  “You know that you must budget for it. That is what is causing the delay. But whenever the encumbrances are removed, they will pay arrears with effect from 18th April, 2019. So, the sooner an establishment starts paying, the better for you so that you don’t take a huge backlog that you cannot take. If you pay in piecemeal and start going, the better. So, I advise all employers of labour in Nigeria, including state government to immediately set up their Joint Negotiating Councils, so that whatever we get from here, we give it to them and they will look at it based on their peculiarities.”