Total capital budget releases under President Muhammadu Buhari administration for three consecutive years (2016, 2017 and 2018) to Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) amount to N4.33 trillion.
Implementation for 2019 budget is yet to kick off. The figure was deduced from capital budget release breakdown confirmed yesterday in Abuja by the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, at his valedictory press briefing. He said Buhari administration came on board at a very precarious time, when both crude oil price and production quantity had flattened, culminating to drastic low of savings in foreign reserves to less than $25 billion.
Udoma said the prevailing situation at a time led the economy into recession, which was reversed by government with combination of strategies which include increase in capital budget releases. “The Ministry of Finance was able to release, for capital spending, the sum of N1.2 trillion under the 2016 budget, the sum of N1.58 trillion under the 2017 budget and, as at 8th May, 2019, the sum of N1.55 trillion has been released under the 2018 budget. “We increased budgetary allocations to capital expenditure – from 16.1% in 2015 to 30.2% in 2016, 31.7% in 2017, 31.5% in 2018 and 26% in 2019 – with priority given to the key execution priorities of the Economic Recovery Growth Plan, ERGP. We were also able to increase our capital releases,” Udoma said. The minister regrettably, during question and answer with the reporters, admitted that the projection of growing economy by 7%, a forecast of ERGP by 2020, is threatened and seems unrealisable.
“Yes, we need to do more; that we are moving slowly is true. However, when you have an economy that went through what ours witnessed in the past, it requires a lot of effort. The beginning will be slow, but it’s a steady progress. The 7% GDP will be achieved in the second term of President Buhari,” he defended.  On inability of the current administration to achieve anticipated January to December budget cycle, the minister, whose job schedule is preparing the budget, attributed it to absence of harmony between executive and legislative arms of the government. “On issue of the January to December budget cycle, there is no legal requirement for the budget year to run from January to December. However, a January to December fiscal year is more predictable and would help the private sector and other economic players in planning because most economic players run a January to December fiscal year.  “Also, it would be much easier to track budget performance if both the recurrent and the capital budgets run from the same dates. It is, therefore, desirable to return to the January to December fiscal year.
“However, to return to the January to December fiscal year for a budget when the operation of the current budget only commenced in June or July is a very challenging assignment. In order to achieve a return to a 1st of January commencement date, the budget must ideally be delivered to the National Assembly by September,” Udoma said.  