Scientists in Serbia said human exposure to chemicals found in shampoo, toys and floorboards could damage the liver and ultimately cause metabolic disorders. Also, the scientists said the chemicals increase the risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes and heart disease. These are the results of their study, which was presented at the European Society of Endocrinology (ECE) annual meeting in Lyon, France from May 18 to 21 2019. The meeting, a worldleading Congress for endocrine specialists attracted over 3,700 delegates, from more than 90 countries. A metabolic disorder can happen when abnormal chemical reactions in the body alter the normal metabolic process. The researchers found people with higher levels of the gender-bending chemicals phthalates in their urine were more likely to be obese or diabetic. Similarly, people that had dangerous amounts of fat in their bloodstream showed signs of liver damage. However, study author, Professor Milica Medi Stojanoska, called on scientists to look at ways to minimise human contact with the ‘harmful chemicals’. Although, Stojanoska admitted the sample of participants was small, she said the results of the study suggested that phthalates cause ‘toxic damage to the liver’, as well as alter metabolism to increase the risk of obesity and diabetes. She added: “We need to inform people about the potential adverse effects of endocrine disruptors on their health.” Phthalates are a group of chemicals used to soften and increase the flexibility of plastic and vinyl. Phthalates are used in many consumer products, including cosmetics and personal care products. They have been detected in numerous everyday products, such as bottled water and perfume. Concerns over their safety are already mounting, the ‘mailonline’ reported. For instance, three phthalates have already been banned in toys manufactured in the European Union (EU). Apart from that, the chemicals have been linked to infertility, obesity and impaired development. However, studies have largely been carried out on rodents. Based on their objective to better understand how the chemicals affect human wellbeing, the researchers measured phthalate levels in the urine of 305 people and found 66 of the participants had the chemical monoethyl phthalate (MEP) in their urine, while 72 had mono-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP). Obese participants had higher levels of MEP, as well as aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT)