Uber has announced that riders in Nigeria will now be able to tip their driver after every trip to show appreciation for excellent service delivery. This new tipping feature will be 100 per cent optional and riders will be given optional tip values as well as an option to customise an amount for their driver.  Lola Kassim, General Manager for Uber West Africa explains, “Driving is more than just getting people from point A to B. Every day, driver-partners do their best to make riders lives easier – from getting them to that big business meeting, first date or must-see match – they do it all. This is why improving the driving experience has been a key priority for us over the last few years.  “The tipping feature comes as a result of the feedback we received from driver-partners through our various engagement sessions with them. With this feature, we want to ensure that drivers that often go above and beyond for their riders are being recognised and rewarded. This could be the driver that waits for riders to safely enter their home, assists with inserting and removing luggage from the trunk or simply a pleasant driver that is warm and friendly and helps you get through Lagos traffic.” This feature will be made available below the rating and compliments section in the app and will remain completely optional. Payments will be deducted from the rider’s registered credit or debit card, cash-paying riders are free to tip an additional amount of their choice. All tips from riders will go directly to driver-partners and Uber receives no service fee. Uber has announced a set of new features on the app that will make it even easier for driver-partners across Nigeria to choose when, where, and how they drive. Driver-partners in Nigeria choose to drive with Uber because they can use the app on their own terms. With these new… In “AutoBeat / Auto Trends” Driver-partners registered on the Uber app, on Friday had the opportunity of engaging with law enforcement officials, health and safety organisations, and members of the local Uber team at a workshop geared towards improving safety and security on trips. The sessions highlighted different topics like where to obtain original vehicle… In “Business” Uber has announced that it will be introducing a new hours policy for driver-partners across Sub-Saharan Africa, including Nigeria to help enhance driver and passenger safety. Drowsy driving is an issue for all who share the road and Uber is committed to doing its part to help prevent drowsy driving,… In “Business”