The processes of buying land by members of the public are sometimes fraught with sharp practices, thereby compelling experts to unravel the importance of search and survey plans as necessary factors to be considered.DAYO AYEYEMI reports.   Going by the dust raised by the Nigeria’s apex court judgment that ceded plots of land around Agidingbi to new owners, many Nigerians have been expressing concerns over the status of their land. Besides, prospective first-time land buyers are currently wary of being duped by land speculators as many of them, who are buying land to build their first houses want to be sure they are buying genuine land before parting with money. According to Mr Sunny Abe, who just paid the first installment for a land in Mowe, Ogun State, he wants to be sure his investment is secured. “I cannot take the risk of losing the N300,000 I just paid and that is why I want the allocation to commence now,” he told New Telegraph Another subscriber, who identified himself simply as “Chris,” said he wanted to be sure the land is genuine before paying additional money. Their fears were further aggravated by the latest happenings in Agidingbi area and part of Ikeja Central Business District of Lagos State, where the new court judgment is threatening residents’ investments. This is coming just as some built environment professionals, who spoke with New Telegraph, have allayed the fear of land seekers, advising them on necessary steps to take towards land buying. According to a former Publicity Secretary, Nigerian Institution of Surveyors, Mr. Ropo Olajugba, prospective land buyers will need to engage land surveyors in the process of their decision to buy land for developmental purposes. Surveyors’ engagement, he said, would help members of the public to avoid some of the pitfalls in the process and also guide them from falling into the hands of fraudsters. According to him, surveyors will help them conduct land search, determine the location of the land and its status. Olajugba advised that it had become expedient for land seekers to know the title of the land they want to buy before paying. He said: “We need to encourage everyone to register their land with government,” adding that this would have settled every dispute in the first instance. The publicity secretary was not pleased with the recent ruling on Agidingbi land, saying what the family was claiming was historical. He added that the new family did not have duly registered survey plan. However, he noted that some of the lands in contention had certificates of occupancy, advising property owners in the area to meet lawyer of the new landowners and ensure better ways of settling the matter. Olajugba said difficulty in the process of buying land was hinged on lack of computerised land registry in the country. “This makes land buying and search difficult, and where it exists, it takes longer period to search and register,” he said. Incessant disputes on land, he said, made survey plan essential when buying land, urging members of the public to consult a qualified surveyor. He said: “It is only survey plan that can help land owners determine the location, size, boundaries and land title. He called on state government to register all land in their territories and computerise their land registries. President, Surveyors Registration Council of Nigeria (SURCON), Mr Joseph Olorunjuwo Agbenla, said that the Land Use Act of 1978 gave the state government authority to hold land in trust for citizens, urging people to conduct proper search before sealing land deals. “Land buyers must conduct search when buying land by contacting a surveyor and lawyers,” he said. Commenting, Chairman, Association of Private Practicing Surveyors of Nigeria, Lagos Chapter, Mr Olufemi Odetumibi, said until one studies the Supreme Court judgment on Agidingbi land tussle, one would not be able to know its basis. He urged anyone interested in buying land to involve qualified surveyors in the process in order to determine the status of the land to guide him in making informed decision. According to him, outcome of the search would determine if the land is good to buy or if it is under government acquisition. For first time land buyers, experts at onthemarket.com urged them to be clear about why they are buying land, advising that land transaction is not something they should rush into without necessary background checks on family or speculators. According to the experts, interested land buyers must familiarise themselves with different types of land in the market, mentioning that there are greenfield and brownfield land. “Greenfield land has never been developed, while brownfield land has been built over previously,” he said. Besides, the experts tasked them on the need to spend more time researching the market. “Don’t just buy any land, focus on areas with growth potential, establish whether you will need planning permission for any building on the land, be sure to get the land properly surveyed. Some of the things to consider during land purchase, the experts said, were to determine the size of land required for the building project; buy land in an area where high rise buildings are allowed, if one wishes to build a high rise building; verify the land is free from government acquisition; verify to know that the person selling is really the owner; and evaluate distance of the land from oil pipeline route, where applicable. “Evaluate distance of the land from power line route, where applicable; evaluate distance of the land from major highway, where applicable,evaluate distance of the land from moat or natural gorge, where applicable,” they said. Agidingbi land The Supreme Court judgment was the outcome of a 42-year-old legal tussle between the Akinole-Oshiun family and the Lagos State government. The land area covers parts of the popular Acme Road and Lateef Jakande Road, with an estimation of over 2000 buildings. Since the final verdict from the apex court, there has been anxiety among residents, who are currently bereft of what would be the mode of executing the court order by the new land owners. Many residents have expressed shock when members of the Akinole-Oshiun family stormed the area with security agents to take possession of the land by pasting Caveat Emptor notice on all the buildings and “ID/923M/99 Possession taken today 26.4.19 by Court Order.” The residents were asked to contact the new landlords’ solicitors, Ayo Opadokun and Co “with whatever documents they have to rectify their title with payments.” They were given seven days to comply, “failure to adhere to this notice strictly will amount to forfeiture of the said land.” The notice, pasted on all the buildings, indicated that the first judgment which affirmed the ownership of the land to the Akinole-Oshiun family was first delivered in 1983. The notice read in part: “This is to inform the general public and in particular, all illegal occupants of that piece of land measuring 398 acres, situated, lying and being at Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos State that the said land has been variously confirmed up to the Supreme Court of Nigeria as legally belonging to the Akinole-Oshiun Family, a land area which is more delineated in the Judgement Survey Plan No. CK/LS/272 dated 22/12/17 drawn by Abolade Coker, Licenced Surveyor; that the family has by the above court judgements taken possession of its legitimate land immediately. “The title of the said parcel of land has been variously re-affirmed in favour of the Akinole-Oshiun Family.” Last line Potential land buyers must beware of activities of speculators by engaging qualified professionals to help them conduct the search, verify status, location, size and boundary.