 Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) will today arraign an official of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Philomina Chieshe, who claimed that a snake swallowed N35 million at the Makurdi, Benue State office of the board.
Chieshe, according to the Acting Head, Media and Publicity of EFCC, Tony Orilade, will be arraigned alongside five others – Samuel Umoru, Yakubu Jekada, Daniel Agbo, Priscilla Ogunsola and Aliyu Yakubu – before Justice Peter Afen of a Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, Abuja.
Orilade said Chieshe became notorious when she made “an outlandish claim” that a mysterious snake swallowed about N35million cash arising from the sales of e-JAMB cards in the state.
He said: “The controversial JAMB official is being prosecuted by the EFCC on an eight-count charge, following her refusal to furnish the management of JAMB the true information on the financial status of JAMB e-cards supplied to the Benue Zonal office between 2014 and 2016.
“Chieshe’s action is contrary to Section 139 (a) of the Penal Code Law.” The Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Shehu Sani, yesterday, stormed the headquarters of Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) in Bwari, Abuja, with snake charmers. Sani said the visit was with a view to getting to the bottom of the issue surrounding the reported case of missing N36 million… In "News" Stakeholders are worried over the level of corruption and other sharp practices uncovered in the ongoing financial audit at the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), calling on the government not to sweep the reports of the probe under the carpet. This is as the Association of Tutorial School Operators… In "Education" In the first Nollywood play pertaining to crime titled ‘Rattle snake’, it was one of the characters named Peter that referred the protagonist, Ahanna who happened to be his bosom friend, to as ‘snake’ when the latter indulged himself in a certain criminal act. The sobriquet was informed by… In "Opinions"