The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Movement for the Actualization of the  Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) have vowed that no amount of threat from the Nigeria Police or any security agency will stop the total shutdown of Biafraland on 30th May. The Pro-Biafra groups said it must shut down the entire Biafraland in honour of starved to death children and the fallen heroes and heroines that died during the Civil war of 1967-1970. This declaration by IPOB and MASSOB is coming on the heels of several warnings from Police authorities to the group to desist from making such calls for sit at home as it has no legal rights to do so. In Abia State, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ene Okon assured that the command is fully prepared to arrest any individual or group who may want to disturb the peace of the state come 30th May. Okon described IPOB as an illegal organization which has no right to order residents to sit at home and urged residents to go about their businesses without fear of molestation. “I assure all residents of the state to go about their businesses without fear. Anyone found harassing residents over the order of an illegal and outlawed organization like IPOB will be arrested and prosecuted. “I assure residents of their safety. The Police in Abia State have the capacity to avert any break down of law and order,” the CP said. Reacting differently, IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Comrade Emma Powerful and MASSOB leader, Comrade Uchenna Madu said no amount of intimidating patrols and show of force will ever deter them. According to Emma Powerful, “Biafra remembrance day celebration is on Thursday 30th of May and Biafrans must not come out on that day. “It will serve as a reminder to the overlords in Nigeria that we Biafrans are united in our quest to be free from the iniquitous bondage called Nigeria. IPOB is a disciplined movement that cannot abdicate its obligation to the dead. “We owe it to our fallen heroes and heroines to honour them in the finest traditions of IPOB on May 30th. No matter how many troops they deploy on our streets or how many people they kill or arrest, Biafraland will be locked down on that fateful day. “There is nothing this wholly incompetent and fraudulent Nigerian Government, her police, army and other security apparatus can do to stop or jeopardize 30th of May. “This great day mapped out by Biafrans to remember their heroes and heroines who sacrificed and laid down their precious lives for this present generation to be alive today, will be observed. “It is better for Nigeria police and other security agencies to stay indoors and respect that day or the spirit of those that died in the quest for Biafra will destroy them. May 30th is a holy day and Biafraland will be on lockdown.” On his own, Uchenna Madu said, “Biafra day anniversary celebration must hold irrespective of the threats by Nigeria Security agents. No amount of their intimidating patrols and show of force will ever deter MASSOB and other pro-Biafra groups from honouring our heroes and friends of Biafra tomorrow. “MASSOB wishes to assure the people of Biafra that there will be no public processions, rally or forceful enforcement on the citizens to adhere or obey our directives involuntarily. “As we preach non-violence, we shall maintain the principle of non-violence in all of our approach towards Biafra actualization and restoration. “As May 30th anniversary celebration is sacrosanct,  MASSOB acknowledged the conscious awareness and synergies among the pro-Biafra groups and other organizations in Biafra land towards the preparations and enthusiastic spirit in readiness for the celebration of Biafra declaration anniversary.”