The Chairman of the Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF), Kashim Shettima, Friday in Kaduna disclosed that members of the forum will meet with President Muhammadu Buhari on his arrival from Saudi to discuss the deteriorating security situation in the north. Shettima who is also the Governor of Borno state urged the federal government to re-strategize and come up with a permanent solution to the lingering challenge. Addressing members of the Forum, Secretaries to the State Governments and those present at the banquet hall of the Kaduna Government House, Shettima said,   “We are arranging, as a family, to meet Mr. President upon his return from Saudi Arabia to cross-pollinate ideas and come up with a robust solution to the challenges facing the north in terms of insecurity.” The governor who also gave a rundown of some of his achievements in the last four years as the Chairman of the forum stated that ” We as a Forum has introduced and implemented quite a number of measures to stem the tide of security challenges in the region. The steps taken by the Federal Government are quite commendable. “I would like to, therefore, express our gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari, for his quick and immediate response to the issues of insecurity in the region which of recent, seem to be deteriorating. “We appeal to the Federal Government to restrategize and come up with measures that could deal with the situation more permanently,” he said. Speaking on his achievements, Governor Shettima said,  “Within this period, we have been able to collectively make some modest achievements in various sectors, which are deliberately initiated and implemented for the overall growth and development of the Northern region and to some extent, Nigeria as a whole. “In the face of the increasing security challenges, especially emergent criminal activities such as kidnapping, cattle rustling, incessant communal clashes, inciting religious preachings and suicide bombings among others, most of which were not properly codified in the criminal justice system of Northern Nigeria, we found it judicially imperative to incorporate such criminal offences into the penal code. “The Forum, therefore established a committee of Attorneys-General of the 19 Northern States to critically examine the provisions of the criminal justice system vis-à-vis, the emergent criminal activities, with a view to ensuring that perpetrators of such criminal offences are brought to justice. “Sequel to persistent reports of drug abuse especially among the youths and women in the Northern States, the Forum initiated the move to fight the menace in a holistic and all-encompassing manner, by setting up committees of relevant stakeholders in each State of the region, towards ensuring eliminating the scourge of drug abuse. “At the National level, the Forum made a passionate appeal to the Federal Government to frontally deal with the issue of drug abuse and possibly declare a state of emergency in the fight against the scourge. It is gratifying to note that the Federal Government has heeded our call, which culminated in the setting up of the Marwa Committee against drug abuse.” He also said, “The Forum, having realised the role of traditional rulers in the overall scheme of things, for the first time in its history, invited Chairmen of the various councils of traditional rulers in the 19 Northern States, to its meetings in order to tap their invaluable resources towards propounding solutions to the various challenges facing the Northern States and the Nation in general”. Among those present at the meeting were Governors from, Niger, Kano, Katsina, Plateau, Sokoto, Jigawa, Kogi and Kebbi. They were also deputies from Bauchi, Benue, Kaduna and Kwara while Zamfara was represented by the Secretary to the State government. The gathering is also expected to come out with a new leadership owing to the expiration of the term of the Borno state governor.