Afenifere, the pan Yoruba Socio-political group yesterday directed all communities in the Southwest geo-political zone to activate their defence mechanism in order to prevent the invasion of their territories by suspected Fulani herdsmen. The mainstream Yoruba organization, in a communiqué said the need for self defence became necessary because of the inability of the law enforcement agencies to defend the people from Fulani marauders and kidnappers, who they alleged have been terrorizing many communities in the Yoruba land. At a meeting held at the house of the Leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti and attended by Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Bashorun Seinde Arogbofa, Prof Banji Akintoye, Chiefs Korede Duyile, Sola Ebisseni and Dr Bakitta Bello, among others, the group said the race would no longer fold its arms and allow it to be overrun by others. In a communiqué read by its spokesperson, Mr Yinka Odumakin , the group threw its weight behind the statement credited to former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, where he linked the kidnapping and attack by suspected Fulani herdsmen to Islamisation and Fulanisation of West Africa. Odumakin, who was flanked by Duyile, said the Yoruba must stop the genocide going on in different parts of the Southwest geo-political zone. The communiqué read: “ The group frowned at the activities of the Fulani marauders all over Yorubaland in form of killings, kidnappings and rape of women. The situation has become much more frightening with the claim by a recently kidnapped don at OAU, Ile-Ife; that he noticed that one of the policemen who stopped him at a checkpoint shortly before he was abducted made a call. He said the policeman is of the same ethnic stock with the Fulani herdsmen, who kidnapped him thereafter. We want the police authorities to properly investigate this as it sends a worrying signal.” Odumakin said that the “meeting advised our people to activate their traditional and communal self-defence system in the face of these existential threats.” Also, he said: “The group reviewed the spate of wanton killings going on across Nigeria and being perpetrated largely by Fulani herdsmen/ militia, the only group that are in possession of unlicensed sophisticated weapons in Nigeria today without fear of any consequence as they seem to have official backing ,promotion and defence.