A herbalist has been struck dead by lightening at Aramoko-Ekiti in Ekiti West Local Government Area of Ekiti State.
The incident, which occurred on Sunday evening, threw the community into mourning. The herbalist, Babatunde Sule, was a worker of Ekiti State House of Assembly Commission. He was struck to death in his apartment at Oke-Oja area of the town. A source said: “The incident occurred shortly after a downpour. The downpour lasted for about two hours. The herbalist, until his death, was a notable traditionalist and a chieftain of the traditional worshippers’ association in the community.” Recalling the event of Sule’s death, the source further noted: “On that fateful day, the rain, which started about 4.30p.m., came with lightning and thunder. It was so much that people panicked and remained indoors. Suddenly, there was another massive lightning, it entered the deceased’s home and struck him in the chest, where he was cooking in the kitchen. “A neighbour, who was worried after witnessing the lightening, ran into the herbalist’s kitchen and found his corpse. The incident shocked everyone. Sule was a notable person in the town. Immediately the news filtered into town, an attempt was made to contact some Sango worshippers. The matter was also reported at the nearest police station.  “The traditional rites had begun and will last for seven days. The rites are expected to be accompanied by downpour. This type of incident has never happened in this town, which was why everyone panicked.” As at the time of filing this report, Sule’s body has been removed from the scene for burial, while traditional worshippers have begun traditional rites. When our correspondent called the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Caleb Ikechukwu, to find out if the case had been reported, he did not pick his calls. Lightning has killed at least 23 cows at Okeowa Eluju, a farmstead at Iloro-Ekiti in Ijero Local Government Area of Ekiti State.   The incident occurred on Monday during a downpour, which was accompanied by thunderstorm.   Narrating his ordeal, Malam Abdullahi Kadiri, the Fulani herder from Ilorin, described the… In "Metro and Crime" A 47-year-old civil servant, Salami Adekunle, was yesterday struck dead by lightning at Oro in Irepodun Local Government Area of Kwara State. The incident occurred during a downpour in most parts of the state in the morning. Adekunle, an employee of the Registry Department of the College of Education, Oro,… In "Metro and Crime" Panic has gripped residents of Kuniyi community in Shagamu Local Government Area of Ogun State, as lightning struck 11 people, killing two teenagers on Sunday. The victims, a boy and girl, were said to have been struck dead while playing football. The deceased are identified as Emmanuel (male) and… In "Metro and Crime"