Outgoing governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, handed over the reins of power to his successor, Prince Dapo Abiodun. Amosun, whose eight-year tenure has come to an end, delegated the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Taiwo Adeoluwa, to perform the handover to Abiodun, who was equally represented by the deputy governor-elect, Mrs Noimot Salako-Oyedele. The brief ceremony, which was held at the Conference Room, Governor’s Office, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, was attended by top government functionaries and members of the joint transition committee. The documents submitted by the Amosun-led government to the incoming administration included handover note, financial statement and records, audited accounts and homeowners charter report. According to Adeoluwa, the outgoing administration ensured a seamless transition to the incoming regime. “What we have done is seamless transition from one administration to another. It has been peaceful and cordial in the full tradition of the state. We promised that by the 28th of May, we’ll be ready with the handing over note. Today, all documents are ready,” he said. Responding, Salako-Oyedele said the documents received by her team remained interim report which would be subjected to review. She commended the outgoing governor for his services to the state, adding that the Abiodun administration would review and continue ongoing projects according to their importance to the socio-economic development of the state. Earlier, the official “pulling out” of the governor was commenced at exactly 2:58 pm after which Amosun and his wife, Olufunso, rode in a motorcade to the admiration of his supporters and loyalists. The governor had also handed over arms and ammunition in the Governor’s Office to the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama. Speaking with reporters shortly after, Amosun expressed gratitude to God for enabling him to complete two terms as governor. He scored the performance of his administration high, adding that chroniclers of history will judge his government as the best in years to come. Amosun further said his election into the Senate will bring more dividends of democracy to his Ogun Central senatorial district and the state at large. He said, “All glory and adoration to Almighty God because it is God that does things. He just uses us as tools in the way He wishes. So, I want to thank God primarily and the good people of Ogun State. “We came, we saw and to a reasonable extent, we have conquered. We are leaving Ogun State better than we met it. “Some cannot even stay. Someone says I am running away. Yes, but I will be running to Mecca to say thank you to God and I will be away for like 14 days but I will be coming for Sallah. “I have told God that if He could do this for me, I will come and say thank you. And I am going to thank Him (God) for what I will describe as unseen fingers, uncommon glory and favour.”