Ife Advancement Agenda, a social-political group in Osun state has warned the leadership of All Progressives Congress in the state to resist the pressure to further alienate Ife Federal Constituency in the distribution of political offices. The group, in a statement signed by his convener, David Awotipe, specifically requested for the post of Speaker of the House of Assembly to be zoned to Ife Federal Constituency to douse the rising discontent in the ranks of the ruling party in Ife Federal Constituency. IAA explained that the Ijesa Federal Constituency that made the second Federal constituency in Osun East Senatorial district of the state has been and is being duly represented in the previous and present administrations in the state, having produced the Governor for eight years, the Minister and now the Chief of Staff. The statement reads, ” it is of concern to us in Ife Federal Constituency that some people would still be clamouring for the post of Speaker of the next House of Assembly, even when that position seems the last available that should ordinarily be given to a strategic political enclave like Ife Federal Constituency. “In the last general elections, Ife federal Constituency out of respect for APC rotation policy did not field a candidate for Ife/Ijesa Senatorial election. “Politically, the Ife federal constituency has always proved its penchant for progressive politics with unwavering support for the ruling party as attested in the last Governorship election and recent House of Assembly election in the state. The IAA stressed further that,” Ife Federal Constituency have quality lawmakers, that combine length of service and cognate experience in lawmaking and management that could fill the position of Speaker of Osun House of Assembly. “For the sake of fairness and equity; more importantly in compliance with the spirit and letters of the 1999 constitution as amended in respect of its provisions in Section 14, subsection 4, we are of the opinion that distribution of political positions should not be lopsided. We advice our party to be fair and just in dealing with the issue.” We also want to humbly appeal to our members elect, who have the constitutional mandate to determine their leadership to be guided by these principles enunciated above.