A Kenyan mother of two, Angela Wairimu, has told anti-narcotic agents she took to smuggling hard drugs to offset her child’s medical bill. Wairimu (33) was arrested for being in possession of substances suspected to be cocaine. Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) arrested Wairimu in possession of 6.5 kilograms. Fielding questions from operatives, the woman explained that she was on her second trip to Nigeria, to procure home-made body beauty products and local fabrics for her enterprise called La Model in South Africa and Kenya. She denied being under any financial inducement but confessed that her daughter was suffering from acute leukemia, which put her under financial pressure. The woman was arrested at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA). She was alleged to have been arrested while attempting to smuggle the illicit substance into Nigeria. Wairimu was arrested on arrival from South Africa aboard an Ethiopian Airline flight to Abuja. Some of the illicit substances were concealed in the false bottom of a travel bag which also contained two wrapped parcels of the same illicit drug. She carried the bag as hand luggage. The NDLEA spokesman, Jonah Achema, said: “Wairimu, who shuttles between Kenya and South Africa, claimed to be a modelling expert and a trader in clothes and cosmetics. According to her, a friend in South Africa approached her to assist an unknown person to deliver the brief case containing wears in Nigeria, which was brought to her at the airport through an errand boy. She was to deliver the consignment to the husband of the sender who was to meet her at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja.” The NDLEA Commander, NAIA, Hamisu Lawan, said the seizure was the biggest cocaine shipment in recent times made by the command. The commander canvassed for the deployment of NDLEA in certain source countries as a matter of national security interest. Lawan advised drug traffickers to desist from testing the will of the agency. He said: “No matter the mode used by drug traffickers to conceal illicit drugs, we are well trained to detect it.”