Being a lawmaker is gradually becoming family affairs in Nigeria as people related by blood or marriage are gradually dictating the tune at state and National Assembly levels, TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports  Political dynasties are common phenomena all over the world, considering how politics has thrown up many families in different countries by the virtues of significant roles they play in managing the affairs of their nations. There is no way the history of many countries would be written without mentioning names of people related by blood or marriage who contributed immensely to the growth of their countries, either by serving in the legislative or executive arms of government. Among the renowned political families in the world are the Kennedys, Bushs, Clintons (all in United States), among others. Since Nigeria gained her independence on October 1, 1960 and became a republic in 1963, the country has produced many political dynasties that have at one time or the other turned politics to family affairs. It is on record that members of prominent families like the Awolowos, Obasanjos, Shagaris, Yar’Aduas, Ojukwus, Nwodos, Akintolas, Akinjides, Shinkafis, Sarakis, Tinubus, Abiolas, Okadigbos, Ubas and Abba Ibrahims, among others have served at the state and federal levels in the nation’s polity. In fact, in the states where some of the families hail from, there were periods when government turned to family affairs with about two to four people from a family serving in different political positions. Some of these families have turned the legislative arm of government to family affairs. Sarakis The Sarakis, who hail from Kwara State in North-Central zone is one of Nigeria’s prominent political families and there is no way the history of National Assembly, especially the Senate would be written without the Sarakis popping up because two members of the family have so far played crucial roles in the legislative chamber. The patriarch of the Sarakis, Dr. Olusola Saraki, was Senate Leader during the Second Republic while his son, Dr. Bukola Saraki is a two term senator and incumbent Senate President. Bukola’s sister, Gbemisola also represented Asa/Ilorin West Federal Constituency from 1999 to 2003 and Kwara Central in the Senate between 2003 and 2011.
Dr. Olusola Saraki popularly called Oloye and referred to as godfather of Kwara State politics during his lifetime, was a medical doctor turned politician. He first entered politics when he ran in the 1964 parliamentary election for Ilorin as an independent candidate, but lost. After the election, he returned to his medical practice in Lagos, only to return to partypolitics in 1979 and was elected senator on the platform of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN). He became Senate Leader of the Second National Assembly. He was re-elected in 1983, but couldn’t complete the term due to military coup in August 1984. Oloye ensured that he empowered his children politically and two of them – Bukola and Gbemisola were elected into the Senate to represent the people of Kwara Central in the Red Chamber. During the 2003 general elections, the older Saraki ensured that Bukola and Gbemisola were fixed into political offices. Bukola was elected as governor while Gbemisola moved from the House of Representatives to Senate. At the commencement of the Fourth Republic in May 29, 1999, Gbemisola was among the 360 members of the House of Representatives. She represented Asa/ Ilorin West Federal Constituency in the Green Chamber on the platform of All Peoples Party (APP). After a term in the Green Chamber, she was elected to represent Kwara Central Senatorial District in 2003 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and also got re-elected in 2007. Gbemisola’s plan to succeed her brother as Kwara State governor in 2011 failed. She contested the 2011 governorship election on the platform of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), a party formed by her father, but lost the contest to the incumbent governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, who was backed by her brother, Bukola. For the Senate president, he served as governor of Kwara State between 2003 and 2011. After the completion of his term, he joined the league of ex-governor in the Senate on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He later defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and was re-elected into the Senate in 2015 and against all odds, he became the president of the outgoing 8th Senate. His quest to return to the Red Chamber for a third consecutive term during the 2019 general elections did not materialize as he lost to the APC candidate, Dr. Ibrahim Oloriegbe. Tinubus Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s name has continued to ring a bell in Nigeria’s politics since the aborted Third Republic. He is today regarded as the National Leader of APC and his political influence cut across Nigeria, especially in South-West, where he is a kingmaker. In the last 12 years he has successfully installed and contributed to the emergence of governors in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ekiti and Ondo states, which make up the South-West zone. Some of the governors who won elections at various times on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD), Action Congress (AC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and APC in South-West were his political loyalists and associates. Tinubu came to political limelight during the aborted Third Republic, when he was a founding member of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and was later elected a member of the Senate, representing Lagos West Senatorial District. Though the Third Republic was shortlived as a result of military incursion, Tinubu distinguished himself in the legislative chamber as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Finance, Appropriation and Currency. Due to the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election and the coup that produced General Sani Abacha as Head of State in November 1993, Tinubu became a founding member of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), a pro-democracy group, which for several years engaged the military for a restoration of democratic governance. Threats to his life later forced him to flee Nigeria. He, however, did not give up the struggle as he joined NADECO abroad to continue the agitation. Tinubu returned to Nigeria in 1998 and showed interest in returning to Senate at the commencement of the Fourth Republic, but few months to the 1999 general elections, the political calculation changed as he changed gear to join the gubernatorial race on the platform of AD and won the party’s primary elections. He was elected as the first governor of Lagos State in the current Fourth Republic and was at the helms of affairs for eight years. Even when other five states in South-West were consumed by the PDP during the 2003 general elections, Lagos State was intact under Tinubu, as the state remained the only one not won by the then ruling party. Tinubu’s wife, Remi who has learned the political ropes from her husband, especially during the eight years she served as First Lady in Lagos State threw her hat into the ring to run for a senatorial seat in 2011 and based on her goodwill and the political network of her husband, she was elected to represent Lagos Central Senatorial District on the platform of ACN. She was re-elected in 2015 and 2019 on the platform of APC. She is the only senator in the history of Lagos State to be elected for third consecutive term to the Red Chamber. Besides Tinubu and his wife, Remi, other close family members of the APC National Leader have also served as lawmakers at the state and federal levels. Tinubu’s son-in-law, Oyetunde Ojo, was elected to the House of Representatives in 2011 to represent Ekiti Central II Federal Constituency. Another close family member, Richard Kasunmu, is presently representing Ikeja State Constituency II in the Lagos State House of Assembly. Okadigbos Late Dr. Chuba Okadigbo, a renowned philosopher, political scientist, academic and orator, distinguished himself at both the executive and legislative levels. Popularly referred to as Oyi of Oyi, Okadigbo who died on September 25, 2003, was appointed as Political Adviser and Strategist to Second Republic President, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, in 1979, Okadigbo at the age of 37 and he distinguished himself. At the dawn of the Fourth Republic, Okadigbo was elected to represent Anambra North in the Senate and was the favourite to be the Senate president at the commencement of the Fourth Senate. However, due to his frosty relationship with the executive under then President Olusegun Obasanjo, Evan Enwerem emerged as Senate president. Few months later, Enwerem was impeached and Okadigbo became the Senate president. In 2000, Okadigbo was impeached, officially demoting him from Senate president to a senator. In 2002, he defected to the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and later became running mate to General Muhammadu Buhari during the 2003 presidential elections, but they lost to Obasanjo and Atiku Abubakar. Eight years after Okadigbo’s exit from the Red Chamber, his wife, Margery, was elected into the 7th Senate to represent Anambra North Senatorial District, which her husband earlier represented, making Chuba and Margery the only married couple to have represented the same senatorial district in the Senate. Mrs. Okadigbo has since then made several unsuccessful attempts to return to the Senate. Ubas The Ubas of Anambra State is one political family that cannot be overlooked in the politics of the state as it has played active role in determining who becomes what in the state for almost 20 years. In the present political dispensation, the Ubas has produced a governor and two senators as well as installing a governor. The political dynasty comprised three brothers – Ugochukwu (a physician and former senator), Andy (a former presidential aide and serving senator) and Chris (a businessman and party chieftain). Three of them have all shown interest in serving at the Senate. But while Ugbochukwu and Andy achieved their aims of becoming lawmakers, Chris’ ambition is yet to materialise. Senator Ugochukwu Uba, who is the eldest of the trio, was elected to represent Anambra South Senatorial District between 2003 and 2007 on the platform of PDP, but was defeated by Obiorah Ugwu, when he attempted a second term. The family, however, bounced back and clinched the seat in 2011 through Andy, who also contested on the platform of the PDP. He was re-elected in 2015. His second coming to the Senate was however threatened by his brother, Chris, who insisted on being the validly nominated candidate of PDP for Anambra South, but the court ruled in favour of Andy’s camp in the state chapter of the party and he went ahead to win the 2015 senatorial election. The two brothers during the last 2019 National Assembly elections pitched their tents with different political parties. Andy was the senatorial candidate of APC, while Chris contested on the platform of the PDP. However, the duo could not muster enough votes to be part of the 9th Senate as they lost the seat to Ifeanyi Ubah, who contested on the platform of Young Progressives Party (YPP). Adelekes The Adeleke family of Ede, Osun State lawis the only family in the state that has produced a governor and three senators. It is of note that Senator Ayoola Adeleke and his two sons – Isiaka and Ademola served their constituents different times in the Senate. Ayoola Adeleke, a labour activist from Ede and former Vice President of the United Labour Congress of Nigeria was elected senator during the Second Republic. Isiaka served as Osun State governor in the aborted Third Republic and represented Osun West Senatorial District between 2007 and 2011 as well as 2015 till he died on April 23, 2017. His younger brother, Ademola succeed Isiaka in 2018 and contested as PDP governorship candidate during the September 2018 governorship poll but failed to be another Adeleke in Osun Government House. Abba Ibrahims The Bukar Abba Ibrahim family of Yobe State has been on the seat of power in Yobe State from theThird Republic till date, dictating the political direction in the state, both in governance and party level. The head of the family, Senator Bukar Abba Ibrahim, served as governor in the aborted Third Republic and was also a twoterm governor between 1999 and 2007. He has also been in the Senate from 2007 till date, representing Yobe East Senatorial District in the Red Chamber. One of his wives, Khadija, who is Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, was a three-term member of the House of Representatives. She represented Damaturu/ Gujba/Gulani/Tarmuwa Federal Constituency of Yobe State from 2007 till 2015, when she was made minister by President Muhammadu Buhari. She had earlier served as Commissioner for Transport and Energy in her husband’s administration. Orjis In Abia State, it is a case of father and son representing their constituents in different legislative chambers. While former Abia State governor, Chief Theodore Orji is representing Abia Central Senatorial District, his son, Chinedum, represents Umuahia Central in Abia State House of Assembly and he is the Majority Leader in the outgoing Assembly. Both father and son were re-elected during the last general elections to extend their stay in the Senate and State Assembly, respectively. Widows succeed husbands in State Assembly In the last two years, three widows have successfully succeeded their husbands in the states Assembly. Two members of the Cross River State House of Assembly died in the cause of duty in 2018. They were Stephen Ukpukpen and Simon Nkoro. Late Ukpukpen, who slumped and died after an early morning exercise, was replaced in the state Assembly by his widow, Abbey Ukpukpen, to represent Obudu State Constituency through a by-election conducted in August 2018. Similarly, Mrs. Stella Nkoro also succeeded her late husband. She was elected during a by-election to be the representative of the people of Ikom II State Constituency in the legislative chamber. Another widow, Mrs. Nkoli Mmegbuaneze, had earlier been elected into the Anambra State House of Assembly in November 2017, to step into the shoes left behind by her husband, Hon. Francis Mmegbuaneze, who represented Idemili North Constituency before his death. Solomons Senator Ganiyu Olanrewaju Solomon, popularly known as “GOS” served in both the Green and Red chambers of the National Assembly for 12 consecutive years. He was elected into the House of Representatives in 2003 and served for four years before heading to the Senate in 2007, where he represented Lagos West for two terms (2007 to 2015). Prior to his election into the legislative chamber, he was the Chairman of Mushin Local Government Area. It is of note that GOS’s late father, Alhaji Rafiu Ishola Solomon, popularly called R.I., also served in the legislative chamber. As a councilor, he represented Ebute Ikorodu at the Divisional Local Council in 1940s when he was still in his 20s on the platform of Action Group (AG). R.I., who was a close ally of late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and chieftain of Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), also served twice as a councilor in Mushin Town Council in the 70s. Alebiosus Otunba Bushura Alebiosu, popularly known as “Bush” is one of the kingmakers in Lagos State especially in the ruling party. He is a member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), the apex leadership body in Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Bush and his son, Dayo are both former lawmakers. While father served at state level as a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly in the Second Republic, the son was a member of the House of Representatives in the present Fourth Republic. Otunba Bush, an engineer-turnedpolitician, went into politics in 1976 and became a councillor in the then Shomolu Local Government of Lagos State. He became a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly in 1979 and was re-elected in 1983. His son, Dayo was a two term lawismaker. He represented Kosofe Federal Constituency from 2007 to 2015. Hamzats Though he hailed from Ogun State, the late Oba Olatunji Hamzat and his sons have occupied different elected and appointment positions in Lagos State from the Second Republic till date. Oba Hamzat, who died on Sunday, is an influential grassroots politician in Lagos State and was an active member of the Action Group in the First Republic and member of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) in the Second Republic. He served as a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly and also as a Commissioner for Transportation in the state between 1979 and 1983. At the advent of the current democratic dispensation, Oba Hamzat was the de facto leader of the Justice Forum, arguably the second strongest political group within the Lagos APC. And due to his political network, his son, Ganiyu served as member of the House of Representatives, representing Mushin I Federal Constituency for three consecutive terms. Another of his sond, Obafemi, a former Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure in Lagos State is the deputy governorelect of the state. Awolowos The name of the late sage and former Premier of Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo still rings bell in Nigeria, especially in South-West, where he remains model for many politicians because of his remarkable and impressive performance while at the helms of affairs in the Western Region. He was the leader of Action Group and Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) during the first and second republics. He was the first Leader of Government Business and Minister of Local Government and Finance, and first Premier of the Western Region under Nigeria’s parliamentary system from 1952 to 1959. He was the official Leader of the Opposition in the federal parliament from 1959 to 1963. Awolowo’s second son, Oluwole, contested for the post of a legislator in the Lagos State House of Assembly during the Second Republic in 1979, which he won to represent the Apapa Constituency, having previously cut his teeth as a politician at the Lagos City Council as a councilor, a post which he won in 1974. Obanikoros Senator Musiliu Obanikoro has a rich political resume in Lagos State, having served at the three tiers of governments – local, state and federal. He was a former Chairman of Lagos Island Local Government Area, Commissioner for Home Affairs, senator representing Lagos Central, PDP governorship candidate in Lagos State, Nigeria High Commissioner to Ghana, and Minister of State for Defence and later Minister of Foreign Affairs II. As a lawmaker, Obanikoro represented Lagos Central Senatorial District from 2003 to 2007. Following the footstep of his father, Obanikoro’s son, Babajide was elected during the 2019 elections to represent Eti-Osa Federal Constituency of Lagos. Adewales Hon. Elijah Adewale was elected during the 2015 elections to represent Ifako- Ijaiye Federal Constituency of Lagos State in the House of Representatives. He died in 2017 and following the vacuum created by his death, his son, Temitope declared his interest to succeed his father, but the ambition couldn’t fly as he stepped down few days to the party’s primary. In his quest to be a lawmaker, Temitope joined the race for Lagos State House of Assembly seat in Ifako-Ijaiye Constituency and won the APC’s primary ticket and also won the general elections to emerge as lawmaker-elect. He is going to be part of the 9thLagos State House of Assembly.