Many people were killed and injured yesterday after violence erupted in parts of Jos North Local Government Area of Plateau State, just as Christians were attending worship services in different churches.  The number of those killed was yet to be known, but several houses were razed in the mayhem. However, among those allegedly killed was a retired military officer, identified as Babayale, and the President of St. Michael’s Catholic Church, Nasarawa Gwong, Mr. Chuwang Davou Michael. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mathias Terna Tyopev, said security men had been deployed to the scenes of the crisis to arrest the situation.  He said: “We have received reports of tension around Dutse Uku, Rikkos, Cele Bridge, and we have mobilised our personnel to the area. As we speak, the Area Commander, Jos Metropolis, is on ground.” A resident of the area, Mr. Paul Musa, said there had been tension in the area since last week. It started after a boy from Angwan Miango was found dead at the boundary between the community and neighbouring Rikkos, a community of Hausa extraction.  He said: “The tension, resulting from the killing was doused by the security agents. Again, on Sunday morning, another boy from the same Angwan Miango was allegedly killed when he went to wash at Cele River, a stream that runs between the Angwan Miango and Rikkos communities.  Angered by the spate of killings, the natives from Angwan Miango took the fight to their Hausa neighbours in Rikkos. The fight degenerated into full blown mayhem with gunshots being fired and houses set ablaze. “The violence has also spread from the two communities to neighbouring Dutse-Uku, even as residents of Tina Junction and Yantrailer are now scared. Retired military officer, Babayale, was hit by stray bullet right in his compound. He has been confirmed dead. ” It was also learnt that some churches, on getting wind of the crisis, immediately ended their services and dismissed worshippers. Meanwhile, security agents, including a Special Military Force, are currently struggling to control the affected communities. It was learnt that trouble started when the body of a Christian boy was found, and the Christians raised the alarm which had been the trend in the area. Once anyone crossed over to the other side, his or her safety was never guaranteed.