A front line traditional ruler in Osun State, the Alagunmodi of Itagunmodi, Oba Famadewa Michael-Ojo, yesterday said he was a victim of Fulani herdsmen’s abduction. Itagunmodi is where gold mining activities which attracted the influx of Fulani take place. The traditional ruler told a press conference in Osogbo that he lost N1.7 million to the herdsmen who abducted him on May 30 last year before he could regain his freedom. Narrating his ordeal, Michael- Ojo said he was horsewhipped by his abductors who later fell asleep after taken the money from his vehicle before he escaped from their custody. The royal father alsoo debunked the allegation of the Owa of Ijesha land, Oba Adekunle Aromolaran, that he rented out his palace to the Fulani gold mining extractor. He described the claim as falsehood and charged members of the public to disregard it. The monarch, however, called on Governor Gboyega Oyetola to, as a matter of emergency, order the stoppage of gold mining activities in his domain and other gold mining sites in the state. He said: “My domain has not been secured ever since strangers from the northern part of the country, China and Niger invaded my domain to mine gold illegally. “The stoppage of the mining operations would check kidnapping, theft and killing in the state. Illegal miners would be forced to exit the state once they discover that there is law banning mining operations. “It is unfortunate that the state government has not been up and doing as regards the illegal gold mining operations in the state. My domain cannot even boast of good water, electricity and security despite sitting on gold.” When questioned on the state of security now in his domain, he retorted “if there is security, would I be kidnapped, beaten and dehumanised in the hands of 20 Fulani men that abducted me? There is no security, no water and other infrastructure in my community. We are not benefiting anything despite that we are lucky to have gold in my domain. “The best way the government could tackle this menace for now is to stop gold mining operations for now. This will even bring sanity to these affected communities.”