   …Records poor compliance in Ebonyi, Imo, Enugu, Delta   A Roman Catholic priest was yesterday attacked and his car damaged in Nnewi when people alleged to be members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) stormed the area to enforce the sit-at-home directive by the body.
No fewer than three persons also sustained various degrees of injuries in the same town following an alleged clash between some traders and members of the group.
Confirming the assault on the priest, another priest, Rev. Fr. Celestine Okonkwo, told one of our correspondents that Rev. Fr. Festus Eziamaka of St Jude’s parish was attacked by IPOB members about 6a.m. and was also shot at by the group.
“He is the parish priest of St Jude’s Catholic Church and he stays at the Bishop’s House where he operates from and we thank God that he survived the attack. He is presently receiving treatment at the Nnewi Teaching Hospital,” Okonkwo said.
When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Muhammed Haruna, dismissed the report, saying he was unaware of any violence anywhere in Anambra State.
Speaking with journalists yesterday, the Director, Media and Publicity of IPOB, Mr. Emma Powerful, noted that the early morning broadcast by their leader, Nnamdi Kanu, from Atlanta Georgia set the tone for the sit-at-home strike.
According to him, the compliance in the South-East has proven that the body is fully in charge of the area.
In Onitsha, it was total compliance as all the banks and markets were closed and commercial activities were grounded.
Same was the case in Nnewi as traders closed shops, sat in groups to analyse the situation.
In Awka, Anambra State, it was almost full compliance with the banks closed but commercial vehicles were on the streets, waiting for commuters.
Public servants in Awka, who went to work, returned home because over 70 per cent of the workers did not come to work at the secretariat.
In Abia, commercial and economic activities were grounded particularly in Aba, the commercial capital of the state, in compliance with the sit-at-home order.
Major markets in Aba were under lock and key as traders and buyers stayed away.
The roads were also deserted with residents indoors. Motor parks in the commercial city were ghosts of themselves as passengers were nowhere to be seen while the few that showed up got stranded.
At the popular Shopping Centre Market (Eke-Oha), located in the heart of the city, major entrances into the market were left ajar with no one around to buy or sell.
At Jubilee Road Spare Parts Market and Saint Michael’s Road Phone and Computer Accessories market, shops were placed under lock and key with no one in sight.
School children were seen in their various homes and neighbourhoods playing, as their schools were all deserted with no teacher seen within any of the school premises.
The scenario at the Ariaria International Market, Cemetery Market and Ahia-Ohuru, the three major markets in Aba, were also deserted.
Some bars and eateries located inside some minor streets in the city which opened for activities were surprisingly deserted.
Meanwhile, police patrol vehicles were seen roving the city with combat ready security personnel stationed round the major entrances to the markets like the Samek Junction, near Ariaria International Market.
Some residents said they observed the sit-at-home voluntarily while some others said they just decided to stay at home to avoid any untoward occurrence.
In Umuahia, the Abia State capital, there was substantial compliance, as some residents later in the day opened for business unlike Aba where the exercise recorded near-total compliance.
Some public schools had classes while the private ones asked their pupils and staff to stay at home.
Till about midday, commercial activities in parts of Umuahia were at low ebbs.
However, joint police and Army patrol was observed in a long convoy parading the major streets of Umuahia and Aba.
There were no incidents of violence or any clash with the security agents as at the time of filing this report.
The situation was drastically different in Imo, Enugu, Ebonyi and Delta with the states recording rather poor compliance to the sit-at-home directive.
Characteristically, there was very little indication in Imo State that there was a sit-at-home order in force. All the major markets in the state were in full swing with buyers and traders doing their businesses.
From the Relief Market, the Douglas Road Market to the Alaba Market all in Owerri, the story was the same with most shops open and traders doing business.
Other business offices in town were all open for business; civil servants were at work, except for very few schools, many private and all public schools had their usual classes with students and teachers in attendance.
Security personnel and police patrol vans were seen in strategic locations across the state, apparently to keep the peace in the event of any conflict.
It was almost a similar situation in Enugu State as all government offices, banks and some shops opened for business.
However, some shops and small markets were shut in the morning but later opened for services around noon.
Public schools were open but scanty except for the JS3 students who were said to be sitting for the “junior WAEC,” while most private schools were shut for fear of the unknown.
The day also coincided with the Christ Ascension Day, a Catholic ceremony which many Catholics normally observe by going to church instead of going to work.
Although Ogbete Main Market, the biggest market in Enugu metropolis, opened for business, there was a lull in business activities when compared to other days, even as few shops within the market did not open.
The entire Enugu metropolis, especially around Agbani Road, Uwani and Obiagu areas witnessed low key business and commercial activities with scanty people in the streets.
The impression around most streets in the state was a sense of a public holiday with serene and peaceful atmosphere.
In Ebonyi State, the people went about their normal businesses without any hindrance.
When our correspondent visited major markets in the state, including the popular Abakaliki Main Market otherwise known as meat market, regional market, building material market, Kpirikpiri market and Eke Market Afikpo, there were normal buying and selling as the markets were filled to the brim.
Commercial banks in the state opened for businesses when our correspondent visited. Customers were seen transacting businesses freely.
Also at the popular Mechanic Village, all the artisans were seen doing their normal vehicles/motorcycles repairs and maintenance.
Workers in the state federal, state and local governments were all seen at their duty posts when our correspondent visited their secretariats while there were normal teaching and learning in all the schools in the state.
Shops, filling stations and motor parks in Abakaliki also opened for businesses.
In all parts of the state, there were free human and vehicular movements. But some youth groups in the state were seen moving round the capital city to check shops that refused to open with a view to sanctioning the owners.
Meanwhile, residents of Delta State yesterday ignored the sit-at-home.
This came a few hours after an official of the Delta State Polytechnic at Ogwashi-Uku in Aniocha South Local Government Area, Mr. John Chukwudi, was shot dead by some gunmen.
The victim was allegedly shot six times by his assailants while he was stepping out of a relaxation centre within the polytechnic town.
The killing came barely a week after a ‘contract-staff’ of the polytechnic, Prince Chukwuedo, was strangulated in an uncompleted building within the school premises over unpaid N13 million contract money.
Market places, schools, banks and other commercial ventures were opened for business transactions within Asaba, the state capital, in defiance to the IPOB’s order.
There was usual bustling and back-slapping at the popular Ogbegonogo, Cable-Point, Abraka and Midwifery markets on Nnebisi and Okpanam roads as buying and selling were on.
It was, however, partially observed at Okwe, Akwueobolo and Bonsaac axis of Asaba metropolis where Igbo from across the River Niger are dominant as schools and shops were shut.
A member of the group, who identified himself simply as Uchenna, was optimistic that the struggle for the sovereign state of Biafra will not be in vain.
He said: “It is not a day business.”
The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, at the command headquarters in Asaba yesterday said the Commissioner of Police, Adeyinka Adeleke, had ordered men of the command to deal ruthlessly with troublemakers, following the directive of the Inspector General of Police. She said: “Our men are at strategic positions to handle those inciting others to defy the people in authority. As far as we are concerned, we are on top of the situation.”
The PPRO warned proponents of the group, which she described as “proscribed”, to stay away from trouble or face the full wrath of the law.