Regina Daniels’ supposed marriage to Ned Nwoko has stirred quite a lot of controversy. Just after being initiated into womanhood in the presence of her mother and other celebrities, a man claiming to be the actress’ father has spoken out. According to him, he is not in support of her wedding to the billionaire. The supposed father bears the name Jude Ojeogwu on Facebook. In a very passionate post, he went down memory lane and shed light on his relationship with the actress. According to him, Regina’s full name is Regina Daniel Ojeogwu. He also said that Regina’s wedding to Ned Nwoko was her mother Rita’s idea. He blamed her for fiddling with her daughter’s life by giving her hand out in marriage. Jude also hammered on the fact that Regina was not supposed to go through with the initiation ceremony as she was not a native of Olor but of Ogwashi Uku. The alleged father was upset that all his attempts to reach Ned has proven abortive. To prove that he was truly the father of Regina Daniels, Jude revealed their former house address and made his phone number public. See the post below: “Regina daniel Ojeogwu is my biological daughter. What ever is ongoing is not to my knowledge and without my consent. The fact speaks for itself looking at the picture. Her mother Rita daniel is threading on a dangerous path and I hope she will retrace her steps. Even the initiation ceremony into otu odu appears completely strange to Regina daniel Ojeogwu. Regina is from ogwashi uku and not from olor as being rumored. All the opportunities for Mr Ned nwoko to discuss with me proved abortive not realising that we once lived in the same house in awoyokun street, onikpan, Lagos. The implication of all this is that she inpregnated herself. The name Regina was my late mother’s name. I have tried to exercise restraint but Regina mother kept pushing me to wall. Am alive and not dead. If in doubt of this post call Barrister Jude Ojeogwu on 08033039058” Even more, Jude Ojeogwu shared a photo of a younger Regina hanging out with other family friends. This was to further prove that he is the biological father of the lady. Many Nigerians have reacted to Jude’s post in various ways. Most of them lambasted him for being an irresponsible father. On Monday, Regina Daniels and her ex-boyfriend Somadina were spotted hanging out at the Children Day carnival she organised in Delta.