At least 2,000 medical doctors leave Nigeria every year for developed countries to seek greener pastures. The Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) President, Dr. Francis Adedayo Faduyile, disclosed this in Abakaliki yesterday at the Annual General Conference/ Delegates meeting of the association in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. Faduyile said politicians in the country did not seem to be worried at the trend because they did not to have the necessary statistics and facts on the matter. According to him, this necessitated the theme of the meeting, which is “Skill Repatriation in the Health Sector: Turning Nigeria’s Brain Drain to Brain Gain.” Faduyile said: “This theme is very apt at this point in time when brain drain in the health sector is at its peak, with about 2,000 health practitioners leaving the shores of Nigeria annually. “We believe that this ugly situation can be turned to an advantage, hence the need to bring this to the front burner for discussion and proffer a way out to the country’s advantage. “Without intent at generating further controversy on the matters arising from the unfortunate remark by a senior cabinet member of the Federal Republic of Nigeria who incidentally or coincidentally doubles as a senior member of the medical profession, it is our firm belief that this gathering would generate further ‘affirmatory’ statistics and facts that possibly would be enough in convincing those policy makers at critical Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government at all levels, including the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity. “The MDAs are yet to come to reality with the scientifically unambiguous deleterious aftermath of the worsening disparity between the health workforce in general and the population they are serving vis-à-vis the alarming rate of the emigration of these health/medical professionals on health outcomes as reflected by the various morbidity and mortality data. Then, they can join us in the clarion call for action and be committed to instituting necessary actions.” Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, also expressed worry over the increasing rate of brain drain in the country’s medical sector. Adewole, who spoke through the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of Alex Ekwueme Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki, Dr. Emeka Onwe, said the Federal Government was working hard to end the mass exodus of medical workers from the country. He said: “I am not particularly happy with the latest trend of doctors leaving the country to other lands for greener pastures. We shall continue to ensure the welfare of the health workforce is improved. “Our effort at centralising the internship posting of newly graduated doctors had received the support of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) and would be rolled out within the year.” The minister said the Federal Government had instituted a diaspora programme geared towards engaging doctors who had acquired latest skills and knowledge that would help transform the health sector. He added: “The ministry will continue to improve on these activities to encourage the ‘diasporans’ to make increased contribution to our healthcare delivery.” Adewole also expressed concern at the inability of several state governments to recruit and keep medical doctors, including specialists, in their secondary and tertiary care hospitals. He said: “In many cases, most local governments’ health facilities do not have a doctor. These are unrelated to poor welfare and remuneration package at various levels among other factors.” Declaring the conference open, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State promised to continue supporting the doctors and other health care practitioners in the state. He said his administration would commence the construction of a new teaching hospital in June for the state university’s medical school at Uburu. Top executives of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) have resolved to end the disharmony between medical doctors and other health workers. To this end, President of the NMA, Dr. Francis Faduyile and his counterpart, Dr. Ahmed Yakasai who is President of the… In “News” Worried by high rate at which Nigeria was losing its medical doctors through brain drain, the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) said governments at all level must urgently address doctor's welfare and work condition to halt the emigration. President of the NMA, Prof. Mike Ogirima lamented that over 600 doctors had… In “News” Poor budgetary allocation has been largely blamed for the woeful health indices being recorded in the country over the years. Considering that the same familiar ‘window dressing’ path is still being towed by both the federal and state governments, stakeholders predict that no significant changes would happen in the health… In “Health”