A former Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido, has cautioned former President Olusegun Olusegun against killing Nigeria because of his disappointment with the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari-led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration.  Speaking exclusively to New Telegraph yesterday, Lamido cautioned Obasanjo against branding the aim of the terror sect, Boko Haram as ‘Fulanisation’ of West Africa and Islamisation of Africa. He said that the ex-president cannot take a whole tribe for stigmatisation.  It would be recalled that Obasanjo on Saturday while delivering a keynote address at the 2019 Synod of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), held at the Cathedral Church of St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Oleh in Isoko South Local Government Area of Delta State, said: “The twin evils of Boko Haram and marauding cattle herders were initially treated with kid gloves. It is no longer an issue of lack of education and lack of employment for our youth in Nigeria which it began as.  It is now West African Fulanization, Islamization and global organised crimes of human trafficking, money laundering, drug trafficking, gun trafficking, illegal mining and regime change.” Obasanjo spoke as a study emerged on how the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), is allegedly trying to form a ‘jihadist proto-state’ in Northern Nigeria. But Lamido in a reaction to Obasanjo’s statement said: “The statement by Obasanjo was made at a very wrong venue. Making such statement is not fair to Nigerians. I am not Boko Haram.  Taking a whole tribe for stigatisation is unfair. “Obasanjo is a statesman and he should not do that. His contribution and personality means so much to me. “It is wrong for him to make such statement in a church. The audience is wrong.  The venue is also wrong. He cannot take a whole tribe for stigmatisation. “We should not allow Nigeria to go that way; where everybody goes to his corner and speak anyhow. We should not kill Nigeria because of one government.” Lamido had earlier in statement through his media aide, Mansur Ahmad, advised Obasanjo not to allow his disappointment with the current administration to turn him to a religious and ethnic bigot.