 As reactions continue to trail this week’s release of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) figures by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited has said that the data shows that the: “Economy is in dire need of fiscal stimulus.”
The firm stated this in its publication, entitled, “Unity Bank Digest” obtained by New Telegraph yesterday.
According to the firm, although the NBS numbers indicates that Nigeria’s real GDP growth declined by 0.37 per cent to 2.01 per cent in Q1’19 from 2.38 per cent in Q4’18, “it is the strongest first quarter growth in the last three years.”
Besides, it noted, “The quarter-on-quarter decline could be attributed to the typical lull in economic activities in the first quarter.”
Despite this, the firm stated: “the GDP numbers reveal that the economy is in dire need of fiscal stimulus.”
The FDC, however, predicted that the:” signing of the minimum wage would boost consumers’ disposable income and increase aggregate demand. In addition, the signing of the 2019 budget by the president would boost economic activities.”
It would be recalled that the NBS data had shown that both oil and non-oil sectors recorded a decline in GDP growth in Q1’19. While the oil sector contracted by 0.78 per cent (quarter-on-quarter) to -2.4 per cent, the non-oil sector declined by 0.23 per cent to 2.47 per cent.
Also, although, the non-oil sector remains the main driver of GDP growth, its contribution to Q1’19 GDP growth rate declined to 90.86 per cent from 92.94 per cent in Q4’18, while the oil sector’s contribution expanded to 9.14 per cent from 7.06 per cent in Q4’18.
The FDC attributed the slowdown in the non-oil sector’s growth to the decline in the ICT sector growth to 9.48 per cent (the first slowdown in the last four quarters).
The Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had while delivering the University of Benin’s series of Eminent Persons’ Lecture, last Wednesday, stressed the need for increased coordination between fiscal and monetary policies in deploying measures that will support economic growth and reduce unemployment.