 Police in Anambra State have arrested 19 suspected cultists after storming initiation grounds in two different places. In the first exercise, 15 suspects were arrested while four others were apprehended in the second raid. The coordinated investigation, leading to the arrest of the 19 youths and others, was a result of the newly launched ‘Operation Puff Adder’ in the state. Items the police recovered from the fir 15 suspects included Ayes cult group regalia, drums, charms, four knives, empty shell of expended cartridge, one dagger, axe and cannabis Sativa. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Haruna Mohammed, confirmed the arrest. He said: “On May 12th following credible intelligence report that some suspected cultists were initiating new members into their secret cult group at Ukulu forest in Dunukofia Local Government Area, our men went there. Police operatives, comprising Special Anti-Cult Unit (SPACS) and ‘Operation Puff Adder,’ stormed the bush and arrested 15 male suspects during initiation into Aiye confraternity. “Items recovered from them are regalia of Ayes secret cult; drum and charms of different categories, four knives and empty shell of expended cartridge. “In a related development, still on the same date, a similar exercise also took place at Mbaukwu in Awka South Local Government Area where four male suspects were equally arrested and exhibits recovered include one dagger, one axe, charms and substance suspected to be cannabis sativa. All suspects confessed to be members of secret cult known as Ayes confraternity.” Mohammed added that the police also arrested 13 other suspected cultists.  He said: “Also, Anene Chekwube (24), a suspected cultist who specialises in burglary and stealing, was arrested at Mbaukwu. Motorcycle spare parts were recovered in his possession. Suspect confessed that he burgled a shop at Ezinifite/Osumenyi in Nnewi South Local Government Area same date and stole the items.  “We also arrested 12 other cultists in their hideouts at various locations. They all confessed to belonging to SVC secret cult group. However, all cases are still under investigation.”