  Gunmen on Sunday evening kidnapped a lecturer with the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Prof. Olayinka Adegbehingbe, at Ikire in Osun State. After the abduction, Adegbehinde’s wife reportedly slumped and was rushed to an undisclosed hospital in Ile-Ife. This came as gunmen also kidnapped a Ghanaian gateman and his daughter working in the house of Chief Samuel Agboola Akintan on Akure-Owo Road in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Adegbehingbe, an orthopaedic surgeon at the OAU Teaching Hospital, was kidnapped at Ikire about the time marauders stormed the Ilesha-Ife-Ibadan highway. Several motorists and their passengers were injured during the attack on the everbusy road. Family members said nothing had been heard from the kidnapped professor and his abductors had not made contacts with his family and OAU. A source close to the Adegbehindes, said the professor’s wife was traumatised as she was present during the abduction. The lecturer’s wife’s younger brother, Mr. Kola Olabojede, said Mrs. Adegbehinde had been discharged from the hospital but was resting and would not want to be disturbed. Olabojede, however, appreciated the concern of all and sundry who swung into action to see to the release of his sister’s husband. He also appealed to the security agents to expedite action in securing his freedom. At the Faculty of Orthopaedic Surgery, OAU, where the professor works, workers especially the lecturers were discussing Adegbehinde’s abduction in clusters. Academic activities were partially grounded. The Osun State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mrs. Folasade Odoro, said the police were already working hard to rescue the lecturer unhurt Odoro said the police had swung into action since Sunday night and would free him soon. She said: “We are already investigating the case and our officers are working round the clock to rescue the victim.” The OAU Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mr. Biodun Olarewaju, also thanked the security agencies for their rapid response to the incident. He specifically commended the state Police Commissioner, Mrs. Abiodun Ige, who he said went to the scene of the incident physically with her officers to comb the place to ensure the release of the abducted lecturer. Olarewaju, however, appealed to the security agents to speed action to secure the release of the lecturer. Giving details of the attack on Ilesha-Ife-Ibadan highway, the Public Relations Officer of Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Mr. Adegbenro Adebanjo, whose wife had a close shave with the marauders, said the incident occurred on Sunday evening when his wife was travelling on the route. Adebanjo said he received a call from his son about 7:30p.m. on Sunday that marauders suspected to be herdsmen attacked the vehicle his mother and brother were travelling in. He said: “My first son explained that, according to information gleaned from his brother, who managed to escape with his phone, the marauders targeted the travellers on the highway. From what I was able to piece together, it was a clinical operation by professionals. “About 6:45p.m., on the Ilesha-Ife- Ibadan Expressway, a trailer loaded with some men suddenly blocked the road around Ikoyi town and some men jumped out and started shooting sporadically. “Mayhem ensued as vehicles rammed into one another while occupants exited through windows and other openings in a desperate dash for safety in the bush. The marauders who spoke in Hausa unleashed mayhem on the hapless travellers, demanded money and other valuables. “They pursued those who fled deep into the bush beating and harassing them in the process while shooting continuously to show that they meant business. Some 20 minutes after help came through the police who engaged the marauders in a shootout and succeeded in forcing them to beat a hasty retreat. “Mercifully, most of the travellers, including my wife and son who were bruised and battered both physically and psychologically, live to tell their tales of the harrowing experiences.” Meanwhile, the Ghanaian working at Ojomo Akintan Gardens, Mr. Richard Kwakye, was kidnapped with his daughter, a graduate, Miss Temitope, at the weekend. The father and the daughter, according to Prince Idowu Williams, who also worked in the Gardens, were seen at their duty post about 8p.m. on Wednesday. He said they were declared missing on Friday when all efforts to locate them proved abortive. He said all their personal belongings were still in the house and their mobile phones still ringing unanswered. Williams said the management of the Gardens had reported the kidnapping at Ijapo Police Station and Anti- Kidnapping Unit at Alagbaka, Akure. Suspected gunmen on Sunday evening kidnapped a lecturer with Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Prof Olayinka Adegbehingbe in Ikire Osun State. This development came as suspected gunmen kidnapped a Ghanaian gateman and his daughter working in Chief Samuel Agboola Akintan along Akure/Owo road in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Adegbehingbe an… In “News” Senatorial Candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) for Ondo North Senatorial District, Mr. Jide Ipinsagba, and the Ondo State Chairman of the party, Mr. Bisi Ogungbemi, have been kidnapped on the Owo- Ikare Road. The Owo-Ikare Road has become notorious for high profile kidnapping in the past few months… In “Metro and Crime” Barely a month after the abduction and release of Oniyani of Iyani, Oba Sunday Joel Daodu along Owo-Ikare Expressway area of Ondo State, some suspected gunmen have kidnapped the Permanent Secretary of the State Hospital Management Board, Dr. Niran Ikuomola.  Ikuomola, according to family sources was kidnapped alongside his driver… In “Metro and Crime”