  Let me quickly kick off this piece by admitting that I am not an economist and will never claim to be one. However, one does not have to even be one to know that things are not rosy in Nigeria even though those in government want us to believe otherwise.
Unfortunately for them, while they can reel off facts and figures (no matter how dubious) to prove their argument that the nation is on an upward rise, the reality on ground paints a totally different picture of the plight of the average Nigerian, which is not helped by the refusal of the leaders to come clean with the true state of the economy. Incidentally even when the nation slipped into recession in 2016 our officials kept quiet, and the citizens were only made aware of their dire situation from reports emanating from outside the shores of “the Giant of Africa’.
Even then, rather than calling a spade a spade, and acknowledging that the nation was in recession following two consecutive quarters of declining growth; our officials still tried to see the “positives”. “There was growth in the agricultural and solid minerals sectors… the areas in which the federal government has placed particular priority,” said President Muhammadu Buhari’s Economic Adviser, Adeyemi Dipeolu. Speaking back then, Kevin Daly from Aberdeen Asset Management, told the BBC: “”A lot of Nigeria’s current predicament could have been avoided.
“The country is so reliant on oil precisely because its leaders haven’t diversified the economy. “More recently, they have tried, and failed, to prop up the naira, which has had a ruinous effect on the country’s foreign exchange reserves and any reputation it might have had of being fiscally responsible.”
Almost three years later, our officials are insisting the worst is over and the nation has moved out of the debilitating recession. Just recently, none other than the Central Bank Governor himself, Godwin Emefiele reiterated the “cheery” news that the worst was now behind us. Speaking while being conferred with an Honorary Doctorate Degree in Business Administration by the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Emefiele, who was recently reappointed for second term, reeled off efforts the apex bank had made to improve the economic outlook of the nation. On the occasion, Emefiele gave a lecture entitled “From Recession to Growth: The Story of Nigeria’s Recovery from the 2016 Economic Recession.” He spoke on the actions the CBN had taken to address recession, which included a combination of monetary and foreign exchange policies, as well as development finance interventions and bailout programmes to states. The apex bank governor said that due to its policies, the country’s GDP had been steadily growing; inflation was going down, the nation’s foreign reserves growing and the foreign exchange market stable at N360 to a dollar.
Emefiele said since the commencement of the Anchor Borrowers Programme, the country had been able to save over $800 million, due to decline in the importation of rice. “So far, the programme has supported more than 1,059,604 small holder farmers across all the 36 states of Nigeria in cultivating 16 different commodities over 1.114 million hectares of farmland.
“It has also supported the creation of over 2.5 million jobs across the agricultural value chain. “A key emphasis was placed on improving rice production, given the considerable weight importation of rice had on Nigeria’s import bill.” But wait a minute is this actually true? Again the reality on ground paints a vastly different picture than that reeled out by the CBN Governor.
A couple of years ago the nation was awash with Ebonyi rice Lake rice and rice from other local sources which were all not only very visible, but were also available to the populace; however, now it’s like some giant vacuum cleaner has come and swept them all off the shelves and markets! What is still very visible all over the country is the same imported rice to which we have been told government has saved over $800 million because forex is no longer being made available for its importation. In fact the scourge is so severe that even the Nigeria Customs Service has expressed concern and displeasure that efforts by the Federal Government to boost rice production in Nigeria were being frustrated or hampered with the activities of rice smugglers into the country.
An Assistant Comptroller, Kolade Iloyode recently raised this alarm during the parade of six suspected rice smugglers arrested with 416 bags contraband rice seized in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Iloyode, who was represented by Kabir Ogah, Deputy Superintendent of Customs, Comptroller General of Customs Strike Force (CGC), Zone C, Akwa Ibom State, said: “This activity of smugglers undermine the intention of the government towards the policy of rice sufficiency in the country. And the only way the government can achieve this and improve the economic status of the country is through arrests and combating these smuggling activities.”
But one major index that things are still very tough in the country is the rising cases of suicides. An act once virtually unheard of in the land reaching endemic proportions with hardly a week going past without another report of a Nigerian opting to take his or her life ostensibly frustrated with the situation they have found themselves in.
Some of the reports are really heart rendering and the incidents are not just limited to the “masses” with reports abound of lecturers, top civil servants, students and religious people all opting to depart prematurely rather than like the great musician Fela Anikulapo Kuti sang years back remain to “suffer and smile”! While as is the usual case government has not come out to officially comment on this worrying trend, a Catholic priest has come out to lay the blame on rising poverty in the land.
The Dean of Ikeja Deanery and Chaplain of Serra Club of Lagos, Rev. Fr. Patrick Obayomi, said: “It is not a good thing to be said of a country, for her citizens to be engaging in suicidal acts. I will blame it on the poverty level and a lot of frustration in the society today. Religious leaders should continue to do their best to stop this menace. “People in government have to be more proactive and see how to eliminate the things that distress people to the extent of taking their lives. Nigerians must be optimistic for a better life and not resort to suicide because it is an unforgivable relinquishing of hope.”
Obayomi, who spoke at the 2019 Serra International Convention and investiture of new members in Lagos last weekend, added: “Nigeria is in a serious poverty state and people are killing themselves because they have come to the end of the road with no support and encouragement; they think the best option is to give up by killing themselves. This shouldn’t be happening in our society.” Once again one will want to call on government and her officials as a matter of urgency take a dispassionate look at the economic situation of the country and come up with solutions that will actually impart positively on the people rather than bombarding us with facts and figures that bare no correlation with what is actually on ground!