In about two weeks, the next assembly of the State of Osun will be inaugurated. Expectedly and has already been witnessing from outside, the jostling for the post of principal officers of the assembly has commenced. Consultation and political realignment are already playing out, diplomatic negotiation and political inducement are not been ruled out either is the balancing of geographic interest. It has been established, at least by public opinion that the two leading candidates for the post of the speaker are Honourable Tunde Olalekan representing IFE NORTH state constituency and Honourable Timothy Owoeye representing Ilesha East state constituency. While we must admit without any element of doubt that both candidates are eminently qualified for the number one position in the assembly, some factors need to be considered for our party APC to continue enjoying the trust and confidence of our members as a party that we are all inclusive without biases of interest towards or against a certain region. Without being sentimental and unnecessarily judgemental or apportioning blames of low-level performance in the last governorship election to any individual or leaders. It is important for us to recall that our party lost massively in all the IJESHA regions during the last governorship election despite all the commitments of the last administration in the region in terms of developmental project and not even the consideration of the outgoing excellently performing governor of IJESHA origin was enough to sway the popular votes of the region for our party. The question many people will be asking today would have probably been what would have our IJESHA be demanding if we don’t have a governor of APC as the chief executive of the state. Again, in addition to producing the governor, the state representative in the federal cabinet is an IJESHA yet we were not fully supported. This votes apathy will form a major opinion in the mind of our supports should the post of speaker zoned to IJESHA. We must also consider we lost the senatorial and house of representative sit of the region to PDP and this is further confirmation that no matter how much we try to please the region we might still be payback in the same way. This writing is not advocating paying evil with evils but sometimes, we need some measure to adequately motivate loyal regions such others can be more dedicated. This is a reason honourable Tunde Olalekan Olatunji should be considered as a first option. We have read several arguments about years of experience in the house. Agreed and we are not disputing the facts that Honourable Timothy Owoeye has spent more years than Honourable Tunde Olalekan Olatunji. It must, however, be noted that the job of a speaker does not require eternity to learn. Honourable Tunde Olalekan Olatunji is a returning honourable member and knows what it takes to be a leader. It will be most uncharitable and grossly unfair to judge honourable Timothy Owoeye about an incident already considered closed but again we must consider public opinion on the issue as related to individual occupying a strategic public office. This is not to condemned honourable Timothy Owoeye on the alleged incident, but we might need to do a lot of justification to redeem his apparent image that appeared to have been damaged and the general implication on the emerging assembly. Another fundamental and crucial consideration that worth our critical evaluation is the geopolitical balancing in the power-sharing equation. The totality of the Ife zone as observed now does not have any leading political figures both in federal and state as representative. We must be conscious of the positive roles played by the IFE region in bringing this government to be. It takes the combined efforts of IFE SOUTH and IFE CENTRAL for us to wrestle the power from PDP. It is naturally fair to compensate this region with the speakership position and again this is another reason to allow honourable Tunde Olalekan Olatunji to become the speaker of the next assembly. This will be a big statement that efforts can be rewarded. We must commend the party leadership for all the internal political realignment to resolve this issue, we must equally commend the maturity so far displayed by the two candidates, but we must consider all factors to get the best and the best at the moment is Honourable TUNDE OLALEKAN OLATUNJI, a young, dynamic and best material for the post. He truly deserves it ÒSUN Á DÁRA OOOOOO