Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Oak Pensions Limited, Mr Samuel Inyang, a finance expert with over 30 years experience, in this interview, speaks about the challenges in pension industry, the economy and sundry issues. SUNDAY OJEME reports  What is your assessment of pension industry in the last one year? The major event of last year was the introduction of the Multi-fund Structure by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). That was the major prong as far as the industry was concerned. In addition to that, 2018 also marked another deduction in the fees earned by the Pension Fund Administrators (PFA). With the introduction of Multi-fund, there was a deduction in the fees earned by the pension fund administrators. The implication of that of course, is the decrease in income of operators but increased wealth to the RSA holders because whatever you charge comes from the funds they are managing. So that means dropping more funds for the RSA holders.  How would you assess the first quarter of 2019? First quarter of 2019 has been all about election. So there was a bit of general lull, every attention was directed to the election because it was like there was going to be continuity or the coming in of another administration. Of course, the very end of the first quarter of 2019 witnessed the commissioning of the Micro Pension Scheme by the president.  What are the challenges your team are facing out there and what are the likely future challenges? The major challenge is that we still have to do a lot of awareness; we have to create more awareness in the minds of Nigerians. Typically, Nigerians are so scared about things like this. We still have the mentality of pension before the commencement of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), how we used to queue up and suffer to get pensions. But the micro pension is quite different. So, the issue is getting Nigerians buy into it. The fact that we know how the economy is today, it is quite difficult for a lot of people to keep their lives going talk less of saving to the time one is 50. It is quite challenging. So a lot of education needs to be done to see the need to cultivate savings. It is very difficult for you to save money and put it in the bank account. The slightest problem you go and access it, but for it to be tied into micro pension plan, at least you can have access to 40 per cent, while 60 per cent will wait until you’re 50 years old a lot of education and awareness is needed. It is a good thing but we really need to educate a lot of people. We have agreed to do it jointly with the regulator as well by individual operators.  What strategies are in place to effectively sell this plan to grassroots people? There are lots of ways to access the grassroots. During the launch by the president, there was a little clip of a play by the National Pension Commission that depicts the whole essence of micro pension. Awareness in electronic media, print media, door-to-door as well as mouth-to-mouth contacts will make a great difference. We are working with orgainsations with mass grassroots outreach that work one-on-one and engage these people. We may not be able to directly have the foot soldiers on our payroll to hit the street but we collaborate with institutions that have already been set up and that are what they have been doing. They are working with some of the major banks and firms. So this is the way we are collaborating apart from the adverts that are being done to enlighten the people and the outreach that are being done by the industry as a whole. We also have collaborated with some people that are going to help us do that.  How acceptable is the Multi-Fund Structure arrangement by the RSA holders? Normally, we organize customers’ forum as part of our strategies apart from sending out letters, which we did to intimate them with the development earlier and later on what happened? We engaged them one-on-one. In the last one-month, we have been with them in two major locations, one in Delta and in Osun states. We engaged them one-on-one where they also ask questions. Only very few were asking why the multi fund structure, some of them are very risk averse and do not want to take the risk. Some may not want to gamble. Gamble in the sense that Fund 1 is the ideal fund for the younger people because the funds takes more risk and the probability for it to make higher returns overtime is there. The risk there is that it could go down but with time you can make adjustment, which is the whole essence of Fund 1. So, if you prefer to be at your comfort zone with the default fund, which is fund 2…. But some few people are still taking hard decisions to be in Fund 1, but that is quite a few of them.  Can a 50-year-old man migrate to fund 1? It’s not allowed. Once you are 50, you can’t take that kind of risk. We need to help you at that time. The regulation does not allow that. Once you are 50, you rather remain in Fund 2, which is for those at 40 and 49. But once you hit 50, we have to tell you look you can’t take this risk and at that point in time you can retire. So, when you retire, you don’t have to take so much risk. What matters most is the stability and security of your fund with reasonable growth on it.  Among those that have actually accepted the structure, have you experienced any form of discontentment at the point of placement into categories? We don’t decide where you supposed to be except when you reach 50, we have to move you to Fund 3. Even if you are 18 or 20 years old, where you go to first is Fund 2, the default fund, then we can apply to move you to Fund 1, so most of them are quite okay to be with that.  Investment of pension assets in infrastructure has been contentious since the inception of the CPS. What is responsible for this and what are the solutions? Lack of awareness, to a significant extent, and also lack of enabling environment because if the environment is suitable to investments, infrastructures are the best we cannot put the funds in federal government instruments when we see opportunities. If you go to other countries, pension funds are put into infrastructures everywhere. Even in Nigeria a significant proportion of pension funds are busy financing big malls with pension funds from South Africa. Our own scheme has just started, we cannot take certain level of risks. If we are comfortable enough, we can put somebody’s retirement fund … first of all, it is the security that matters most, and of course, returns are inevitable but we will not compromise security to the return. Under the infrastructural funds they have some other funds towards these infrastructures, we invest in them, not directly because our license does not allow that. We can only do it through a third party. Those third parties are that when they’re established and we are given some adequate protection and assurances that when the fund goes in it will come out with adequate returns, we invest in them. So, as we are starting and with the support of the government and those enabling environments coming up, we are willing to do it.  And what are those things you require? First of all, we need some guarantees from the government and the promoters to the project, not that we put the money then another government will come in and terminate the project and proceed to court. We need to have some assurances to put in long term funding into it. For now, we could not be able to do much with the public sector rather the private sector that have gotten some concessions with the government and then they tie everything. If we are comfortable, we can invest in that platform. Lagos-Ibadan expressway project was going to be a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement but of course, you are fully aware  that the case is still in court. In Nigeria, we still have need for infrastructures, look at the railways, the roads are not working well, things that are carried by roads are damaging our roads, we need to put money and this is the opportunity. The pension funds supposed to go in there. We need enabling environment.  The general elections have just been concluded, was there any disruptive cause to the business of pensions during the exercise? There was no disruption apart from the general lull in activities aside the public sector. People were seeking re-election and in fact, people’s attention in the first quarter was all about election and attentions were diverted to politics. At times, office works in the public sector had to suffer because of politics. Besides, after the election, things are beginning to come back to normal, so it wasn’t really disruptive.  As business leader, what do you expect of President Buhari’s second term? The president has told us of his next level agenda, we believe that his first four years has been used to set for next planning and really we expect significant changes. We expect speedy decision making, we expect harmonious relationship between the executive and the legislature because if they are not working in harmony, the people are going to suffer. So if they have a good relationship, the things that could be done will be done faster and this will be good for Nigeria. We expect massive investment in infrastructures because we can’t move forward without good infrastructures. We don’t have power, for how many years we’re still battling with low capacity, low megawatts with less than 5,000 being generated and distributed. Maximum megawatts have been roving around 7,000 or less and before you blink it has dropped to 2,000 and this is not even being distributed accordingly. In an economy like this, we must develop, particularly, power because power is the fulcrum of development everywhere. You can have cottage industries all over the place to stimulate the economy if there is adequate power supply. And if the president can pay local contractors, the states pay their workers’ backlog of salaries and pensions because when these payments are being done, there will be money in the economy. And above all, the government has to fight insecurity, it is alarming. As we speak, people are afraid of traveling by road between Abuja and Kaduna. There is absolute fear all over the country; the government needs to tackle this. This also scares away foreign investors. We are not talking about portfolio investors who invest money today and take it out the next day. To have real investors that can bring in money and put up industries that can generate employment and remain here, we need to make the environment conducive for them. Of course, in his ( the president’s) fight against corruption, he should build up the process and at the same time ensure that it is being done across board irrespective of where one is coming from, irrespective of their political lineage, it should be done headlong with everybody.  Having assessed the president’s fiscal policies in the past four years, what are those areas you think he should correct in his second term? Basically, I hope he changes from his name-in–tag ‘Baba go slow’ to something that of a little bit of speed, he has good ideas but let us implement them with speed so that Nigerians can benefit from it. Like I mentioned executive/legislative relationship, if all those things are sorted out, we will be able to move fast. Again, if payment of local contractors to stimulate the economy, payment of wages and pensions is done on time things are going to get better.  Are you foreseeing any drastic changes in his new policy directions from what he had in the last four years? Honestly I don’t really think there will be something so drastic apart from maybe, if he can get it to be a little faster. He is going to move a little faster but I don’t see anything so drastic coming. He may do more on infrastructure, he said about N3.5trillion was going to be raised through Promissory Notes and it is going to be used to settle debt as well as payment of backlog of salaries, if that is done it will go a long way to address those issues. But I don’t know to what extent he is going to tackle insecurity.   What is your take on the proposed increase in Value Added Tax by the federal government?  Honestly I will not support it for now because once you do that, the minimum wage you are trying to bring in means that you give in one hand and take it in another hand. The impact will be quite massive more than whatever percentage he may want to increase. They should look for other ways of raising funds outside VAT. In Nigeria there are so many ways people are not being taxed. Why can’t we take records of everybody, people who own properties everywhere untaxed? Where do they get the funds to do all those development? We should enumerate taxes on properties they own (cut-in, even on the one in my village?). Even the one in your village, don’t you want development there? They are not going to tax you the same thing as somebody in the city but we should pay a little thing because we need to develop that community. Property tax, if we really do it well we can generate a lot of resources for this country. The Federal Inland Revenues are doing well but we can expand the tax base both at the state and national level and bring in more people to the tax bracket. Let everybody contribute to the development of our country, it shouldn’t be only the salary earners. Just bring in more people to the tax bracket not VAT this time around. I will subscribe to VAT increment once the government is able to fix the roads, fix the rail, health system and education. Once you are able to address these things then you can have reason to make such increase.  Nigeria’s debt profile has climbed to over $25billion. What are the implications of this on the pension industry and of course, the larger economy? You see, there is nothing wrong in borrowing. Do you know the status of America? They have the largest debt profile in the world today and that is where everyone wants to go. Not the debt but how you utilize it. If you borrow money and then use it to develop key sectors of the economy, you attract people.  In a situation we are borrowing to service debt and pay for recurrent expenses, is it a good omen for the economy? What volume of borrowing will take care of the recurrent? Very little, but the real borrowing should go to the real sector, that will bring in development and people will be eager to come. If you take care of security and put all these things in place, people will be willing to come. We have what it takes for foreign direct investments to flourish, which is the population. You produce something in Nigeria, people will consume the bulk of it here in Nigeria but industries are moving away from here to Ghana. Why? Just because of power . Where are we, borrow the money but let it be used properly to develop this country. There is nothing wrong in borrowing but let it be used for things that will impact positively on the economy.  How prepared is Oak Pensions to take advantage of this window created by the recent launch of the Micro Pension Plan by President Muhammadu Buhari? Since 2017, we have been planning towards it. We have been talking with the regulators and they have been planning with us. We have good hands that we have brought on board and they are currently in the street to harvest from the micro pension plan. But as you know, this is just the beginning but obviously the future of the pension industry, to a large extent, will be impacted seriously by the micro pension plan. The study done by the Price Water Coopers reveals that we have about N13trillion in the micro pension sub-sector. So, if we are able to harvest this, PFAs that may have done their homework would worth the while. Obviously in the beginning, we need to deploy a lot of resources into it. It is not a business that is going to impact on the bottomline so soon because at the throttling stage a lot of resources is put into it, manpower, equipment and other infrastructures to run the scheme and of course, trust Nigerians, for a new thing coming initially, they are wary of it but once it kicks off by Nigerians buying into it, it will make a significant impact.  What are the financial benefits of the scheme to your company? We are not talking about making money out of it for now; the scheme has just been launched. So we can’t talk of making money out of it for now.  Can you tell us about Oak Pensions in terms of performance? We came in after all other players were already in the market. So the time we came we were struggling with the market. In 2012, we were able to acquire the assets of some defunct PFAs, the Evergreen Pensions and CRIB Pensions, who could not recapitalize and since then, we have been growing in bounce. Currently, our RSA is about 178,000 with over 58 percent contributing regularly. Our AuM has been growing gradually. Between 2017 and 2018 we witnessed 19 percent growth a year. And of course, on the retirees’ side we have 3,000 retirees under management.
It could have been better if some of the state governments have keyed into it. We deploy resources in terms of registration but not yet funded. Some state governments have even stopped funding.  What would you say is Oak Pensions, cutting edge in managing pension funds? What are those things that are attractive to both the existing and potential customers? We pride ourselves as the centrepoint of excellence service delivery and cutting edge in technology acquisition. These are the things that make our customers stay with us, if they have complaints we attend to them promptly.