As the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) gets set for its State Congress and National Convention, the Political Adviser to Governor Willie Obiano, Barr. Ifeatu Obiokoye, who is contesting for the Anambra State chairmanship position of the party, speaks on his ambition and the way forward for the party. OKEY MADUFORO reports  A lot of crisis is rocking your party at the moment. How can you resolve this if elected the state chairman?
Yes, our party has been facing challenges since the last primary elections and a lot of people are aggravated about the outcome of the primary election. But I call it a normal thing in party politics and it happens in every political party in Nigeria. Here in Anambra State, the APC and PDP are in court over the manner the primary elections were conducted, so it is not just APGA alone
To me there is the need for us to commence effective reconciliation of all factions in the party and also carry out some ‘bucketing’ of positions both in the party positions and in committees so that they would be given sense of belonging. The governor, Chief Willie Obiano is the leader of the party and he has good listening ears and is disposed to peace in the party. There are people from other parties that are desirous of joining APGA and they are waiting to see how the problems would be settled. But the level of hostility in the party and among members is grave?
But they are members of the party and we appreciate their predicament and we have structures in place to calm the fraying nerves. I have been a party man all my life. I was State Chairman of the then PDP in Anambra State and that was at a time PDP was in its elements and we came out unscathed. A political party is all about the people in the party and they are Anambra people. There are those that have good reasons to be angry and interestingly they did not dump the party for another party.
They are still loyal card carrying members of the party and they want a change in the way things are going at the moment. I have been meeting with them and speaking with them as political adviser to the governor and I am happy that most of them are seeing reasons why they have to be patient with the party while matters are being resolved. Your party could not produce a Senator-elect in the last general election in Anambra State and some National Assembly members were not returned?
The elections tribunal is there to prove us right or wrong and I will advise that we wait for the tribunal to carry out its duty and give us the verdict and only then can we address or look at the success or failure of the party in the last elections. However, we still have members of the party that won National Assembly elections in the state.
We have Anambra West and East Federal Constituency; we have Orumba North and South Federal Constituency we have also Aguata Federal Constituency, Idemili North and South as well as Ihiala Federal Constituencies and that is five out eleven seats.
This is an election that was conducted by the ruling party APC and the PDP most people said we will not win any seat at the National Assembly because PDP had the former Governor Peter Obi as PDP presidential running mate and former governor and Minister for Labour and Employment Sen. Chris Ngige is from Anambra State. But we emerged victorious. At the State Assembly level we got 24 four seats out of 30 in the area and some one is saying that we did not do well. Most congresses of political parties are always marred by crisis as a result of the doctoring of the list of delegates for the exercise and your party is accused of the same crime. How will you respond to that?
Our party believes in the policy of internal democracy and we do not compromise that at all. The lists are there for the candidates to see and it is left for them to go and campaign to the delegates.
It is only those who are not prepared for the congresses that go about complaining that they were short changed. If you are a party man or woman you know the delegates and they must see you as one of their own, so how can you lose? If you disconnect yourself from the party and you choose not to be a party team player, how will you win? But it is being alleged that the governor has anointed candidates for the congresses and how comfortable are you about that?
I am not aware of any candidate that has been anointed by the governor and he has always insisted on a level playing ground for all party members to take part in the electoral process.
The governor cannot destroy his own house in the name of supporting a candidate because he knows its grave consequences and the governor that I know will not do that. He sees APGA as on family with one goal of keeping the party together. Anyone going about carrying false stories about the governor sponsoring people is afraid of failure and that is how they start failing. The current State Chairman is from Anambra South Senatorial District and he wants to go for a second term and you are from Anambra Central Senatorial District. How will that work?
Naturally, nobody is against an incumbent going for a second term and nobody is against injecting fresh blood into the party. But the party is not against that and there is no sacrosanct arrangement on which of the zones that should produce a chairman of the party. What our party is after is to elect an executive that will take the party to a higher level and it is the wish of party members that APGA attends greater heights. Conversely, you do not celebrate mediocrity because of zonal sentiments to the detriment of the party. Similarly the current National Chairman of the party is going for a second term and there may be people nursing the same ambition and nobody has raised any question about that, so what is wrong in a loyal party man of my status going for the state chairman of the party?
Don’t forget that I was the National publicity secretary or the party and my records are there for all and sundry to go and verify and my contributions to the party is also my selling points. How do you see the plans of your party merging with the UPP being led by Chief Chekwas Okorie?
How is that possible when we’re conducting the National Convention? I have not heard of any merger with any political party and our party has all that it takes to win election, so why should we merge at this point? Maybe we have to approach Chekwas Okorie of the UPP to tell us who he has been discussing with on the alleged merger plan. What is the other party coming to the table with that will give room for the merger arrangements? I see this as diversionary from other political parties to disrupt our National Convention so that we go into crisis and we are not going to allow that to happen in our party. There is this religious angle to the politics in your party where church leaders have a say in who gets what and how?
Are you saying that we cannot manage the affairs of our party without the church coming in to the picture? I have not come across that and our party is not in that kind of arrangement. Those who are peddling this story are not ready to contest election and all they do is to rely on the church and the church leaders have on several occasions made it clear that they should be distanced from party politics.