 Western Metal Products Company (WEMPCO) has said it has no plan to leave Nigeria despite the harsh economic condition in the country. The company, while debunking media reports linking it with advertised sale of Oriental Hotel, said though it has investment in the hotel, the purported sale announcement did not emanate from it. WEMPCO, in a statement released yesterday, explained that even after the death of its founder, Mr. K. F. Tung, in March this year, “the Tung family and everyone at the WEMPCO Group of Companies remain fully committed to contributing to the ongoing growth and development of Nigeria.  “We must hereby categorically state that there has never been and there is no intention of the WEMPCO group to exit Nigeria as stated in the reports. Our Group has been in Nigeria for several decades and have witnessed many cycles of the Nigeria economy. “Although the Nigerian economy faces tough times, our firm belief in the resilience of the nation’s economy remains unshaken and we will continue to develop alongside Nigeria for many decades to come,” the firm stated. According to the company, the late founder, Tung, first visited Nigeria in 1967 and soon began businesses in enamelware before venturing into steel, timber, ceramic, and real estate industries. “Under his leadership WEMPCO flourished and has supplied much of Nigeria’s construction materials through the country’s burgeoning economy throughout the years. The Group has, without doubt, contributed immensely to the economy of Nigeria in particular and West Africa in general,” it said.  It further clarified that while the Oriental Hotel in Lagos is a flagship in the Nigerian hospitality business, it is not a flagship of the WEMPCO Group. “It is an investment made by the Group in 2008, but not part of our core manufacturing business. Although the recent spate of advertisement of the hotel was not initiated or authorised by our Group, to divest in the asset would simply be a commercial decision based on the merits of a reasonable transaction,” WEMPCO Group said. Contrary to claims in the media that it relied on Federal Government’s waivers, WEMPCO said it has never received special concessions outside of those extended to industries as a whole.