Call for urgent revival of Eastern ports  Dangote Sugar, Massilia Motors declare loss  Say over 100 companies have left Apapa  NPA truck call-up system not final solution –Ameiwero  As the Federal Government continues efforts to find a lasting solution to the Apapa gridlock, by implementing the Nigerian Ports Authority’s truck call-up system in the 3rd quarter of 2019, indications are that the Nigerian economy loses over N10 billion daily as the country witnesses its worst logistics crisis ever since the famous Cement Armada crisis of the 1970s. Sunday Telegraph survey shows that no fewer than two to three thousand trucks from different parts of the country litter the streets of Apapa, Amuwo Odufin, and over flow into Badagry Road, Oshodi Road and Ikorodu Road every day. It was revealed that whether these trucks are going in or leaving the ports or Tank Farms, it will take them over one month to access the ports and another one month to get to leave or get to their destinations in or outside Lagos. And for that period, the shipper (importer or exporter) pays one form of surcharge or the other to the Shipping companies and Terminal Operators while the export or imported goods would get to the port of destination or the importers warehouse destroyed especially perishable and other consumable goods. Speaking in an interview in Lagos, port industry analyst and President of National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Mr. Lucy Ameiwero, said the situation in the Lagos ports has reached an emergency situation, saying businesses in Nigeria today that import or export anything is in serious danger of going under if has not already because of the logistic crisis the country is facing as a result of the Apapa gridlock. “Over a hundred companies that had their operational base in Apapa because its nearness to the port have either gone under already or relocated to locations outside Apapa which means that they are struggling because of the logistics to getting their raw materials from the ports,” he said.  Overcapacity utilisation Though Nigeria has six seaports across the country, the Lagos Port Complex, Apapa and the Tincan Island Ports, handle over 80 per cent of all Nigeria’s imports and exports excluding oil and gas. Mr. Lucky Ameiwero said there is no way any business can survive in the country in a situation where a distance of less than three to five kilometres from the Lagos ports cost over N2million to transport a container, even as it will take the trucker over two to three weeks to complete the two to three kilometers journey which ordinarily should not take up to 30 minutes. While lauding the reported plan by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to commence implementation of its proposed truck call-up system in August, this year, he said though the plan to put the Tincan Island Port Truck Holding Bay into use and convert the Lilypond Terminal to a Truck Park; to operationalise the truck call-up system is one step in the right direction, the capacity of the two parks will is insignificant when compared to the number of trucks that are supposed to go into the Lagos ports daily to pick up consignments. “What is the capacity of all the identified truck parks around the town and the two government parks put together? Where will the other trucks be? The move is a right step but other very good steps need to be taken too to find a lasting solution to solve this problem which is strangulating the Nigerian our economy.” Mr. Ameiwero added that the final solution will be to move the excess cargoes coming to the country to other ports (Eastern ports) as the Lagos ports lack capacity to handle the cargoes it is handling now. He said though it will be too early to start celebrating the recent International Maritime Bureau (IMB) first quarter 2019 report that indicated a zero piracy incident on Nigerian maritime domain in the first three months of the year, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) needs to take advantage of the emerging safety situation on the Nigerian waters to move some of its operations to the Eastern ports to bring to an end the overcapacity utilisation of the ports in Lagos. He said: “What the Lagos ports and Apapa is suffering is over capacity utilisation and the solution is simple – direct the excess cargoes to the Eastern ports. What I am talking about here is not emergency diversion of cargoes but putting the seaports in the Eastern zone into full use. That can easily be done by giving incentives to shipping companies and shippers and dredging the shallow draught of the Calabar and Port Harcourt ports.”  Businesses losing profit, folding up Meanwhile Sunday Telegraph investigation shows that in recent years, over 100 business concerns in Apapa have either folded up or relocated their businesses to other parts of Lagos State because of the traffic gridlock. For the ones that have managed to stay for one reason or the other, they have either devised ingenious strategies that allow their staff skip work some days of the week, work from home or come to work from the waterways. But for all businesses around Nigeria that depend on the port for import of their raw materials or export, it is either story of failure or nose-diving of business and profit margin. This is as Massilia Motors, the sole distributor of Mitsubishi Motors and subsidiary of CFAO in Nigeria has lamented the heavy toll the traffic situation in the port city has taken on it business, saying it is one of the reasons why the cost of vehicles have jumped up and the business becoming more and more unprofitable, because of low volume of sales. Speaking, Managing Director of Massilia Motors, Thomas Pelletier, said: “We are still around because of our faith in Nigeria. How can the business survive when the cost of transporting a container from Apapa Port to our warehouses in Amuwo Odofin or Ijora is higher than the freight paid on the container from Japan to Nigeria? “Businesses in the country are in quagmire over this logistics crisis caused by the Apapa traffic gridlock. Businesses have become unprofitable and unattractive for further investment.” For the Dangote Sugar Refinery Plc, Nigeria’s biggest grower of the sweetener, the traffic gridlock in Apapa as well as illegal, low-quality imports are putting pressure on its selling price, and hampering delivery to customers. “Sales and production volumes were constrained’’ in 2018 because of “these challenges,” the company said in an emailed presentation to Reuters. It disclosed that traffic jams around the ports of Lagos, which currently handle about 80 per cent of shipping activities in Nigeria, hamper distribution. The company, owned by Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, said revenue dropped 26 per cent to N150.4 billion ($418 million) in 2018 while net income retreated 44 per cent to N22.2 billion. More storage facilities will be built for finished products at Dangote’s refinery this year so it can better optimize its production cycle, which has been hampered by the unavailability of trucks due to the traffic gridlock, it said.  Last line In a bid to find a lasting solution to the Apapa gridlock, NPA said it has concluded plan to implement call-up system for trucks entering the ports for goods delivery from August this year. This coming as Hitech Construction Company has commenced skeletal work from the Oshodi end of the Oshodi-Apapa expressway which was Dangote AG last year undertook to complete its reconstruction in 24 months at the cost of N70 billion.