Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) of the Nigerian Army yesterday said that its troops had identified and destroyed 38 militants’ camps through Joint Operation Areas (JOAs) in Benue, Taraba and Nassarawa states. OPWS said it was part of efforts to check violent clashes between herdsmen and farmers in those states in the last one year. The Commander of the OPWS in charge of the states, Major General Adeyemi Yekini, disclosed this at a news conference at the Tactical Air Command (TAC) of the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) in Makurdi. Yekini said during the period under review, the operation recovered 178 assorted weapons and 3,569 ammunition of different calibres from armed militants. He said a breakdown of the weapons recovered showed that 41 weapons and 1,293 ammunition were recovered in Benue State, 127 weapons and 2,235 ammunition were recovered in Nassarawa State while and 10 weapons and 41 ammunition were recovered in Taraba State. According to him, more arms and ammunition were recovered from Nassarawa than other states while more operations were conducted in Benue. The OPWS commander also said that during the period, troops arrested 171 militia elements in-cluding armed herdsmen and criminals linked to the wanted criminal, Terwase Akwaza alias Gana, and neutralised over 140 bandits during encounters with the troops in the three states. Yekini disclosed that over 250,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) had returned to their ancestral homes since the operation was launched. He said: “A breakdown showed that 250,000 IDPs returned home from Benue, 30,000 in Taraba and 5,000 in Nassarawa respectively.” Yekini maintained that Gana’s associates, including his wife, spiritual leader and close confidants were neutralised, while Gana had fled from his areas of influence in Katsina-Ala. The OPWS commander added that the Gana’s armed militant group had been crushed as the group was no longer in any position to terrorise any part of Benue and Taraba states. According to him, the incessant clashes between the Bassa and Egbira ethnic groups, which used to make Toto Local Government Area of Nassarawa State ungovernable, has now become a thing of the past.