Following the victory of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in Imo State, Chief Emeka Ihedioha in the last election, STEVE UZOECHI in this analysis looks at the task ahead of the incoming governor  By the 29th day of May, 2019, Chief Emeka Ihedioha would have assumed full responsibility as the governor of Imo State. The trappings of the office of a Nigerian governor are enormous, with immense latitude to dispense goodwill.  Ihedioha may not fully exploit these perks, just yet, if he is resolved to succeed as a governor. He will be inheriting a state in dire administrative straits, with the urgent need to reorder a broken down system; and bring structure to a strange and amorphous administrative module. The incoming governor would need to adopt and implement a new and result-oriented administrative protocol in line with acceptable best practices. Ihedioha may not have the luxury of learning on the job as such he would not need to experiment in his appointment of key aides. He would have to put his best foot forward, hit the ground running and cut to the chase with his best team. Granted that Ihedioha is an experienced politician, he may not afford, under the circumstance, to wholly run government by appeasement of political power blocs – he will face the risk of running his administration into an inexcusable morass. The mob, they say, is fickle and the masses largely fall into that pantheon. The Imo public is aware of the level of plundering, dilapidation and shabbiness the state has endured in recent time. They have also booed at some point and at other times, called out the outgoing government for the uninspiring state of Imo today. But hindsight counsels that the masses, as always, are a vacillating lot. By the next rainy season in 2020, Imo people will no longer be blaming outgoing Governor Rochas Okorocha for the poorly done road network in the state capital; they will willfully forget that the drainage system in the state capital became calamitous following unprofessional and unregulated destruction and reconstruction of the drainage lines in the state capital. They will not want to be reminded that the pension administration system in the state had been outsourced to charlatans and records of payments and pensioners irredeemably tinkered. It will not be convenient to urge civil servants to be patient while the new government harmonizes the non-statutory deductions in their salaries and gets the statutory payment system working again, seamlessly. The local government system in the state had been comatose for about eight years and Imo people, with the heightened expectations, may not want to wait for another year before life is breathed back into the local government system. The Imo masses may also ignore the fact that in the last eight years also, there has been no drop of tap water in any home in the state capital. The infrastructure for delivering potable water to homes reticulated by former governor Sam Mbakwe administration, in the tune of $40million, and executed by an Israeli company had been utterly destroyed in the cause of the Okorocha administration’s Urban Renewal project. It would be convenient to heap these responsibilities on the new governor. Beyond these, Ihedioha would have to devise a means to deal with the issues and sentiments around the free education program as set up by Okorocha and also think up a cause of action in view of the four new universities the outgoing governor recently secured licenses for, in the face of dwindling resources. The contention across the state had been that the only state-owned university, the Imo State University (IMSU) had been poorly funded. As such whatever end the outgoing government may have in mind in securing licenses for four new universities in a state that owe pensioners more than 72 months unpaid arrears may need to be taken with a pinch of salt. To say the least, pundits want the four new universities to be viewed as ‘Greek Gifts’. Nevertheless, this is Ihedioha’s call to make. The new governor would have to dispassionately choose his priorities and endeavor to get them right. He should be able to balance out immediate needs and long-term needs; urgent challenges and issues of concern that are of no immediate implication; and ofcourse, causes of action that portend immediate dividend for the people and those that bear long term beneficial consequences. Ihedioha will have to tread carefully as the call for recovery of public properties intensifies across the state. While there have been spontaneous allegations of annexation, illegal conversion, revocation and reallocation of lands and public properties, it is expected that the new governor will approach the calls for action with utmost respect for due process and rule of law. Rather than arbitrarily making sweeping declarative statement like the outgoing government, the incoming government should embark on a careful audit of the properties in contention before any formal action is taken. No matter how prudent Ihedioha may turn out to be, he would be compelled to expend resources on rebuilding some structures erected by the outgoing government. The reason is simple: In the last eight years, the Okorocha administration established itself as one which lacked the taste for excellence. For the period, Imo people were witnesses to a government that had to severally reconstruct projects solely because the initial work was poorly done. Credibility of contractors and standardization of project works were issues of little consequence to the Okorocha administration leading to large scale collapse of several infrastructural works embarked upon by the outgoing governor. For instance, the governor had in the last eight years been working in the state capital; the Urban Renewal project of the government broadened most roads in the municipal but failed to provide qualitative macadam for transportation and drainage system for run-offs. Consequently, for every rain that lasts for as much as 20 minutes, the Government House roundabout, which is at the foot of Wetheral Road, in the heart of the city, is flooded to the extent that free vehicular flow is impeded. This and other infrastructural landmines scattered across the state will need urgent attention from the incoming governor or he would have to take the knocks for them in the next season. Furthermore, there have been con