The Flying Eagles will go all out for the three points when they take to the pitch of the 15,300 –capacity Tychy Stadium against Qatar in the opening match of Group D of the 2019 FIFA U-20 World Cup finals on today. “It is a big match for us, as every other match in this competition. We know the importance of picking up the three points in our first match, which is why we are determined to go all out,” team captain Ikouwem Utin declared. “Taking the first three points will help us plan our approach better for the remaining matches in the group phase, and also boost our confidence,” Utin added at the team’s Vienna House Hotel in Katowice on Thursday. The game kicks off at 5pm Nigerian time and it will be followed by the match between Ukraine and USA which starts at 7.30pm Nigerian time. Qatar are just three and a half years away from hosting the FIFA World Cup and the oil-rich nation are looking to have some of their talents in this tournament leading their charge for a memorable camping at the mundial Coach Paul Aigbogun and his assistants have somewhat calibrated a new team, leaving out half of the squad members from the Africa U-20 Cup of Nations in Niger Republic in February, where the team earned the ticket to Poland, and infusing a number of exciting talents in midfield and attacking realms. While the choice for the number one shirt is between Detan Ogundare and Olawale Oremade (who was custodian in Niger), Valentine Ozornwafor and Igoh Ogbu are likely to keep their spots in central defence. Captain Ikouwem Utin would be at left back while Jamil Muhammad could be at right back. In the midfield, much attention will be on the England –based duo Nnamdi Ofoborh and Ayotomiwa Dele-Bashiru, as well as AC Perugia of Italy’s former junior international Kingsley Michael. In this sector also are home –based professionals Effiom Maxwell and Aniekeme Okon, who are rapid raiders on their day. Dele-Bashiru of Manchester City has already been tipped by world football – ruling body, FIFA, as one of the players from whom much is expected in Poland. At the fore, Nigeria has a cosmopolitan flavour with England–based Chinonso Emeka, Norway–based Jerome Adams, Czech Republic–based Tijani Muhammed, Sweden–based Henry Offia and home–based Success Makanjuola vying for available spots. “We have a tough history to match. Silver medals on two occasions and bronze medals once, and a number of quarter final appearances. That’s why we must start very well, by taking the points against Qatar and then march on with confidence and self assurance,” Aigbogun told thetheff.com on Thursday stressing Nigeria cannot underperform.