Education Minister, Mallam Adamu Adamu, has expressed concerns over the decision of some state governments to hand over the management and operations of public schools in their state to private organisations to overseer. Speaking at a one-day workshop on “Privatisation and Commercialisation of Education,” organised by the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in collaboration with Educational International (EI) and Friedrich Ebert-Stiftun to highlight the need for adequate investment in quality education for all, the Minister warned that such decision would only impact negatively on the nation’s education system. The Minister, who was represented by the Registrar/Chief Executive of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, insisted that education is not a commodity for sale and therefore the idea of privatisation and commercialisation of the enterprise should actually be extensively interrogated. He, therefore, urged stakeholders in the education sector to work together towards a common goal of rising against anything that could lead to privatisation of education in the country. “If private investors want to establish schools they are allowed to do so, but in a situation where the government is handing over what used to be public schools to individuals should be vehemently discouraged,” Adamu said. Meanwhile, the NUT National President, Dr. Mohammed Idris described the handing over of government schools to private organisations as a gross violation of the Universal Right to Education and the compulsory and free Universal Basic Education Act, 2004, which provides a nineyear free and compulsory basic education for all children in Nigeria. He noted: “The NUT has, over the years, vehemently opposed the handing over of public schools by some state government to private organisations. This is an aspect of privatisation and commercialisation of education that we consider anti-people and retrogressive. “However, information before the union indicates that only recently some primary schools have been handed over to some faith-based organisations by Abia State Government without recourse to other key stakeholders such as the NUT; while Benue State Government is also on the threshold of handing over some secondary schools to private proprietors. “We call on the concerned state governments to review these policies for the benefit of the less-privileged children in their states and deserve unfettered access to qualitative education.” On his part, the representative of the Fredrick Every Stiftung, Mr. Ulrich Thum said that NUT had a huge role to play in ensuring that the Nigeria’s education system overcomes its problem, noting that it is imperative to demand from all states across the federation to allocate enough resources to support education delivery.