 Justice Nicholas Oweibo of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday granted bail to music artiste, Azeez Fashola aka Naira Marley, standing trial over alleged credit card fraud.
Naira Marley, who was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), was granted bail in the sum of N2 million with two sureties in like sum.
According to Oweibo, one of the sureties must be on Grade Level 10 in either the federal or state employment while the other must have a landed property within the court’s jurisdiction.
The judge also directed the anti-graft agency to verify the bail terms.
Oweibo then adjourned the case till October 22, 2019, for commencement of trial.
Earlier during yesterday’s proceedings, defence lawyer, Mr. Olalekan Ojo (SAN), urged the court to accept his client’s bail motion based on the presumption of his innocence in accordance with Section 162 (1) of the Constitution.
On his part, the EFCC’s lawyer, Rotimi Oyedepo, argued that it was not the temporary release of the singer that mattered but the final judgement.
He, therefore, urged the court to grant accelerated hearing rather than bail.
Oyedepo added that since the defence lawyer had described his client as a celebrity, then his actions and inactions had a multiplier effect on youths in the country.
Naira Marley was on Monday last week arraigned by the EFCC on an 11-count charge of alleged credit card fraud.
The defendant, however, denied all the allegations contained in the charge upon his arraignment.
In the charge, the anti-graft agency alleged that Nicole Louise Malyon and Timea Fedorne Tatar were the names on the credit cards found on the artiste and an alleged accomplice, Raze (said to be at large).
The charge reads in part: “That you, Azeez Adeshina Fashola, aka Naira Marley, and Raze (still at large), on or about the 11th day of December 2018, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, conspired amongst yourselves to use Access card 42658840359191132 issued to persons other than you in a bid to obtain gain and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 27(1)(b) of the Cyber Crimes (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) Act 2015 and punishable under Section 33(2) of the same Act.
“That you, Azeez Adeshina Fashola aka Naira Marley, and Raze (still at large), on or about the 10th day of May 2019, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, with intent to defraud possessed, counterfeit card 4921819410257431 issued to Timea Fedorne Tatar and you thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under Section 33(9) of Cyber Crimes (Prohibition, Prevention, etc) Act 2015.” The Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi has granted Nigerian Musician Azeez Fashola bail. At the resumed bail application, his lead defense counsel Olalekan Ojo for the singer apologized for his absence at the initial arraignment on May 20 due to heavy down poor. Ojo urged the court to accept… In "National news" Nigerian musician, Azeez Fashola, aka Naira Marley, has been arraigned at the Federal High Court in Lagos for an alleged credit card fraud. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) charged him with 11-counts of the offence. He pleaded not guilty before Justice Nicolas Oweibo. The judge adjourned until May… In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Lagos Zonal office, on Tuesday, March 12, 2019, arraigned Ecobank Plc before Justice Saliu Seidu of the Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos on a five-count charge bordering on conversion of funds to the tune of $50,000 and N9.2million. Ecobank is facing… In "National news"