President Muhammadu Buhari has promised Nigerian workers that the new national minimum wage recently signed into law would be fully implemented by his administration.
Buhari made the promise yesterday at the 2019 Workers’ Day Celebration which coincided with the Centenary Celebration of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), with the theme, “Another 100 Years of Struggle for Jobs, Dignity and Social Justice in Nigeria.” The President, who was represented by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, expressed the readiness of the present administration to focus on addressing the critical issues that would reposition the nation’s economy on a sustainable path of economic growth and prosperity in the next four years.
These include the building of critical public infrastructure such as roads, rail, hydroelectric power, and also reforming key driving sectors of the national economy in order to put the country on a sustainable path of economic growth and prosperity.
“For this administration, we truly believe that the Nigerian citizen, especially those at the bottom of the pyramid, must be the central focus of all economic planning and budgeting.
“The welfare and well-being of all these Nigerians who work every day and render honest services every day is the true benchmark of our commitment as government and a people to social justice and dignity of all Nigerians.
“We will continue to commit ourselves to the cause of improving the lot of every working Nigerian and providing for those who cannot work.
“In this regard, the new National Minimum Wage, which Mr. President signed into law a few days ago, shall be fully implemented by the current administration,” he said.
Buhari, who showed appreciation for the support his administration has enjoyed from workers, solicited for more support to enable government attain the goals laid out for its second tenure in office, adding that workers would be called upon to play greater roles to achieve those goals. Buhari pledged to provide an enabling environment for higher productivity, congenial atmosphere for effective collective bargaining amongst trade unions and employers, as well as industrial peace and harmony. However, he appealed to labour unions to make industrial actions a last resort as every industrial disruption costs the national economy very dearly in monetary terms and man-hours loss.
Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, said that public and private employers of labour were bound to comply with the new Minimum Wage Act and should backdate payment of the new wage package to April 18, 2019.
Ngige, who was represented by the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Prof. Stephen Ocheni, warned that there would be penalties for employers who would default from doing the right thing.
Ngige explained that workers’ representatives could directly approach the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) on matters concerning non-compliance with the provisions of the new Act on National Minimum Wage. Meanwhile, organised labour has called on the Federal Government to “quickly finalize” the salary adjustment across the payroll of civil and public servants, who have patiently waited for the arrival of the new minimum wage.
In a joint address, President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba and President, Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Bobboi Kaigama, commended the steadfast commitment and dedication of Nigerian workers to the new minimum wage struggle and urged them to remain vigilant till total victory was won. They faulted the power sector privatization which took place during the previous administration and demanded a review of the exercise to boost efficiency in the sector.
The duo, however, lamented that the country was plagued with what they described as “endemic corruption” and “institutional chaos”, which was crippling the nation’s economy and development.
“Our economy is yet to be weaned from import dependency. Our economy remains essentially rent seeking, subsistence, non-inclusive, vulnerable to shocks from the global commodities market, fraught to unwieldy inflationary trends and unable to create sustainable mass jobs.
The labour leaders lamented the high rate of unemployment, which, they said, was responsible for the upsurge in crime and restiveness, urging all tiers of government to provide incentives to drive and sustain the growth of labour-intensive industrial sector.
“There are millions of jobs locked down in the untapped value chains in our agricultural, petroleum and mining sectors. Now is the time to unlock them and provide decent jobs for our youths. Now is the time to reconstruct the sour narrative of exporting jobs and prosperity to other climes and importing joblessness, poverty and misery into the motherland,” they said.
There were speculations that the absence of the Ngige might not be unconnected with the ongoing cold war between him and the leadership of organised labour, over the aborted inauguration of the National Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSTIF), with Frank Kokori as its chairman.
However, Ngige said he was unable to make it to the annual event because he was down with flu.
Ngige’s Senior Assistant on Media, Mr. Nwachukwu Obidiwe, said that contrary to the insinuation, the minister was absent at the rally for reasons of ill health.