Worried over the poor quality of healthcare delivery services in the country and the huge amount spent on medical tourism, a coalition of Civil Society Groups (CSO) has called on government at all levels, organizations and well to do individuals, to make conscious efforts towards supporting health institutions in the country.
Making emphasis on the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH), the CSO’s led by the National Coordinator Empowerment for Unemployed Youth Initiative, Comr. Solomon Adodo, noted that health plays a critical role in national development.
Speaking during an inspection/fact finding visit to NAUTH, he stressed on the need for relevant institutions and individuals to address the existing gaps and salient needs inhibiting an efficient and quality health care delivery system.
Quoting the Minister of State for Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire as saying “Nigeria spends over $1bn annually on medical treatment”, he maintained that the situation could be curbed if medical institutions were properly funded. He added that a support to the health institution would be beneficial to the entire nation, including an increased productivity of the people only guaranteed through good health and wellbeing.
“We observed that the hospital has constraints of space both for patients and offices which is adversely affecting the functioning of the teaching hospital.
“Power supply is also a strong challenge and we call on the Enugu Electricity Distribution Plc to give special attention to NAUTH facilities,” he said.
Besides commending the Chief Medical Director of the Institution, Prof. Anthony Igwegbe for prudent management of the limited resources available to the teaching hospital, the CSO’s equally commended the Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano, for consistently supporting NAUTH including the donation of 500kva generators. They however drew his attention to his pledge to construct the road to the permanent site of the hospital.
“We call on the federal government to accord accelerated support to NAUTH towards the completion of her permanent site and that the institution be designated as center of excellence in health research and service delivery,” he added.