As part of its mandate towards protecting small scale farmers in Nigeria via the Area Yield Index Insurance (AYII), PULA Advisor, an insurance and technology company has settled some farmers that subscribed to some of their insured agric products in Kaduna.
PULA, in partnership with Leadway Assurance Company with support from Nigeria Incentive Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) and the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation (NAIC) last year launched the AYII project to accelerate growth of agricultural insurance in the country.
According to the organizers in a statement, AYII was designed to protect not only the initial loan or the capital the farmers puts in, but also their potential cash flow.
Speaking at the event for payout to beneficiaries, Country Manager and Project Director of PULA in Nigeria, Dr. Samson Ajibola explained that the company uses technology to drive agric insurance to ensure that excluded small time farmers get insurance by making insurance easily accessible to them.
Ajibola said that PULA’s partnership with Flour Mills of Nigeria, served as the operation engine that carry out production and labeling of the fertiliser, while Leadway Assurance Company Limited see to it whether there is either a loss or not.
He also disclosed that PULA does the field work by tracking every bag of fertiliser in every village and agro dealers shop so that as farmers buy the fertilisers, it makes sure their data are captured like phone number, BVN, type of crops, their location among others.
“In fact, the size of the farmlands is also captured,” he explained. “And at the end of the season before farmers start harvesting, PULA accompany them to the field for the harvest to measure exactly what their yield is, take GPS location of the farms, take pictures and ask them what were their challenges during the season.
“By so doing, we are able to collect the yield data to calculate and ascertain whether farmers had a claim or not.”
He disclosed that the event was for those farmers who had claims during the pilot phase of the program in 2018 to come and receive their claims pay out.
Speaking on the acceptance of the programme, the Country Manager of PULA, said seeing the reaction of farmers at the event showed that they actually accepted the program, because the pilot was on 25kg bag, pointing out that 2 bags of 25kg of fertilizer is more expensive compared to 50kg bag, yet farmers still go for the 25kg.
“When you ask them why they preferred the 25kg bag, the reply is that they go for that because of insurance.”
He also said data have shown that farmers because of insurance are ready to even pay 10 per cent more than the normal cost of production because they want to get insurance.
He explained that if a local farmer with less than 10 hectares can buy an agric products, especially those with insurance and ensure that the product is activated, when floods, quilerbirds, pest, diseases, drought among other negative effects on the yield, the farmer can be sure it’s not going to be a total loss but something no matter small is going to come back to him to serve as a starting point for the next season.
He encouraged local farmers to buy products with insurance label, pointing out that it will help cushion some of the effects of what they could not control in their farm investment.
On his part, Victor Oritedi, Head, Sales of Agro Input, Flour Mills of Nigeria PLC, explained that paying out to farmers that used their fertilizers that have insurance on them, is a fulfillment on their path.
According him, the insured fertilizers guarantees some form of yield on the area they are farming and if there is a short fall in the established yield, which they are suppose to have, the company compensate them to enable them not to have complete loss in the whole farming exercise, and that is why they are partnering with PULA and LEADWAY Assurance to help them achieve it. Nigeria’s quest to become self-sufficient in food production has continued to gain traction especially through sudden realisation of the role insurance plays in developing the agric sector. SUNDAY OJEME reports     Although agric insurance had existed for long in the country with services provided by the Nigeria Agriculture Insurance… In “Business” Recurring disaster on Nigeria’s farmlands is providing more ground for the Federal Government to widen the scope of agric insurance campaign. Sunday Ojeme reports.   About two weeks ago, the Federal Government bungled another opportunity to sell insurance to Nigerian farmers with the president skipping that aspect while promising farmers… In “Business” Recent changes and development in weather have made it vital for cash crop farmers and other investors in agriculture to take insurance more seriously. Sunday Ojeme reports   For sometime now, the effect of widespread global warming is having its toll on every sphere of human endearvour. In the developed… In “Business”