If others see nothing good in you, it has little or no effect on how you will end up. When some persons share negative or false stories about you, it definitely will not hold water with time. However, when you see or say nothing good about yourself, then, there’s a big issue; perhaps, your second name is ‘Doom’. Irrespective of your present situation, never you look down on yourself. Do not get to a point where you see nothing good or great about yourself. Believe in yourself. Believe in your dream. Sometimes, your present situation may not correspond with the great picture you are seeing concerning the future; still, do not be discouraged, keep pushing, keep moving, someday, you will arrive at your destination. Many great persons we celebrate today had had horrible pasts. They didn’t look like they would amount to anything back then. In fact, many gave up on them. Some even talked them down. But they kept going on and today, they are celebrated. When you see someone’s great glory, ask for their story. Striving for greatness? See the following: a. Stay away from negative people. Stay away from people who specialize in killing your morale. Stay away from persons who always talk you down. Minutes spent with them had never for once yielded positive results, rather, you keep getting drained; such persons should be avoided. Stay with people who bring out the best in you. Spend time with people who challenge you to be better, positively. Surround yourself with people who are going same route with you; persons who challenge you to becoming a better version of yourself each day.
b. You can’t please everyone The earlier you note you can’t please everyone, the better for you. For many years, I suffered from the “pleasing” syndrome. I was living my life based on other people’s approval. I was always asking the question – “Who do men say I am”? I needed others’ opinion to validate my person. Oh, how foolish I was. Men will tell you “you are too slow”. When you try to up your game, they will say “you are too fast”. And when you finally decide to be moderate, they will tell you “you are not real”. Do I have a witness?  Live your life to the best of your ability. However, ensure to be better each day. The only persons you should aim at pleasing are God, yourself and your spouse (Even though the last may not be 100%) Someone once said – “If you want to please everyone, sell ice-cream”. However, it has been discovered that even when you give ice-cream to everyone, there are still some persons who would complain that your ice-cream is bitter. Yeah.
c. Do not make a permanent decifemision in a temporary situation: Do not come to a point where you draw a conclusion base on your present circumstance. Remember, where you are is not the destination but a passing-point.
Your present state is a phase, not an end. Things will soon get better. You will still be greater and higher than this. Anyone looking down on you is making a great mistake. You are an asset, not a burden. You are a goldmine waiting to be discovered; just a matter of time. You are presently in the mud because great stuff are discovered in the rough – If you doubt me, ask Mr. Gold. People who are judging you base on your present account balance are not yet aware that you are the next big thing that could ever happen to them. Don’t worry, when they start filling forms to you see you, then they will learn how not to judge a book by its cover. You are just a diamond in the rough, trust me. My young male folks, can I have your attention please. The next time you woo a lady and she decides to walk out on you because “you are not up to her standard”, gently draw her back and ask the following question: HOW ON EARTH DO YOU WANT TO WALK OUT OF GREATNESS? I bet she would reconsider you.
Do not look down on yourself, no matter the situation.