An Islamic cleric, Jimoh Adamu Omotayo, has been arrested by Zone 11 Police Command, Osun State for allegedly heading a kidnap gang. Omotayo was arrested along with Abdulaahi Budah and Umatilla Ahamed at different hideouts in the state. Omotayo, who introduced himself as an Islamic cleric, claimed that he co-opted into the criminal act by a member of the gang identified as Babatunde.  The said Babatunde is still at large. Omotayo said: “I’m an Islamic cleric.  I decided to back out of the crime when I realised the evil effect. If police release me, I promise never to engage in such a venture again.” The Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), in charge Zone 11, Adeleye Oyebade, said the three suspects were part of those who had been terrorising indigenes of the state with their nefarious activities in the past before nemesis caught up with them after the abduction of Salihu Ahmed (46).  Ahmed was abducted in his farm located at Agbeye village in Odo-Otin Local Government Area of the state. The arrested suspects, who are currently being interrogated by detectives in the zone, have allegedly been disclosing information on activities of the gang. Oyebade said: “The kidnap gang led by Omotayo abducted Ahmed in his farm located at Agbeye village in Odo-Otin Local Government Area of Osun State.  The gang, numbering about five and armed with locally-made single-barrelled guns, took the victim to a forest in Ikare-Akoko, Ondo State where he was held captive for 17 days. “After a painstaking investigation carried out by the Zonal Technical Intelligence Response Unit led by a Superintendent of Police (SP) Idowu Fapojuwo, the suspects were arrested at their various hideouts in the state.  Upon the arrest, the kingpin, Omotayo, confessed to the crime and mentioned Abdulaahi Budah (52), Umaru Ahmed (35) and one Babatunde and others as members of the gang.”  The police boss, however, maintained that the command has succeeded in decimating the impregnable gang even as efforts are being intensified to nab the fleeing members of the gang. He said that the smashing of the gang would further reduce cases of abduction. Oyebade said that the gang, until its arrest, had been terrorising innocent citizens. According to the AIG, the gang was forced to release their victim without collecting the N3 million ransom earlier demanded after they found out the police were closing in on them. Oyebade promised to charge the suspects to court immediately investigation was concluded.