For the second time, the House of Representatives has invited President Muhammadu Buhari to address the nation on efforts by his administration to stem the rising state of insecurity in the nation. PHILIP NYAM reviews the latest move  It is no longer news that the state of insecurity in the country is becoming more complicated as the menace seems to be fast spreading to areas hitherto unconnected with the threat. Prior to May 29, 2015, Nigeria was primarily faced with the threat from Boko Haram; which after a sustained and committed fight by the military after President Muhammadu Buhari took over from ex-President Goodluck Jonathan soon became degraded. Unfortunately, as Boko Haram was being degraded, killer herdsmen emerged on the scene and suddenly kidnappers took the narrative to another level entirely. The activities of killer herdsmen in states like Benue, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba and Kaduna have left many dead and an unprecedented devastation. Elsewhere, bandits have been on the trail of residents of Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna and Sokoto, killing, kidnapping for ransom and burning down communities. In fact, the worsening insecurity reached its crescendo last week, when the district head of Daura, Katsina State, Alhaji Musa Umar, was abducted and is yet to be released. According to reports, the kidnappers stormed Umar’s residence at 7.pm on Wednesday, shooting indiscriminately. Umar had just returned from the mosque, where he took part in the evening prayer. He was sitting in front of his house with some people, when the kidnappers came. Again, in a bold move reminiscent of the kidnap of Chibok girls in Borno state during the Jonathan administration, gun men, also last week, attacked Government Girls Secondary School Moriki, Zuru Local Government area of Zamfara State, abducting four nursing students and two teachers. It was this disturbing and worsening insecurity that made the House of Representatives to pass a resolution on April 11, urging President Buhari to visit the House and brief the nation on what the Federal Government was doing to nip in the bud, the worrying security threat. Expectedly, the President did not honour the invitation from the lawmakers. But even as he did not honour the invitation, Boko Haram tend to have resumed its offensive in Adamawa, Borno and other north eastern states, just as kidnappers have become more deadly and daring. Today, there is hardly a day that passes without someone being kidnapped or herdsmen and Boko Haram terrorists striking elsewhere. On that April 11, the House had actually given the president a 48-hour ultimatum to comply with their resolution. But having failed to honour the invitation and with the renewed attacks and insecurity that pervades the nation, the House, again, passed a resolution last Thursday (May 2), inviting the President to address the nation on the government’s plan to end the circle of attacks and death of innocent Nigerians. But, there is no denying the fact that the successes recorded by the Buhari administration since 2015 seems to be fast eroding as armed robbery, kidnapping, herdsmen attacks are taking the shine off the government’s efforts. The second invitation was sequel to the approval of a motion by Hon. Ahmed Dayyabu Safana (APC, Katsina). In the motion titled “Urgent need for Federal Government’s intervention on the ongoing wanton killing of innocent persons, destruction of properties, armed robbery and kidnappings by heavily armed bandits operating within Safana/ Batsari/Dansamu federal constituency,” Dayyabu informed that some villages within his constituency had been serially attacked with many people killed by armed bandits. He said that as an immediate step in containing the evil activities of the heavily armed bandits, the President should urgently declare a state of emergency in the federal constituency. His words: “The House notes with dismay the ongoing attacks on various communities with Safana/ Batsari/Dansamu Federal Constituency of Katsina State by heavily armed bandits, who continuously unleash mayhem against my constituents on daily basis. “Also note that the recent spate of the said attacks on members of my constituency has reached an alarming stage as the perpetrators of this dastardly act continuously kill innocent persons in my constituency and set their homes ablaze, while defenceless men and women are abducted to an unknown destination. “Worried that up to four villages within my constituency are currently under attack in the last 48 hours namely: Massa village in Batasari Local Government Area, where no fewer than five persons have been killed, Alhazawa village in Safana had been totally displaced, Guzurawa village also in Safana had several persons murdered in cold blood and just yesterday, Gobirawa village came under attack with no fewer than 12 dead bodies littered in the bush, while many are still missing “Also worried that these killings have continued unabated and these bandits seem to be unstoppable with a specific instance at Gobirawa village in Safana LGA, where the bereaved villagers were forced to abandon the corpses during the burial and scampered for safety, when they sighted the bandits coming back to launch another offensive “Disturbed that these bandits, who operate both at night and in broad day light on motorbikes parade sophisticated weapons including AK 47 assault rifles and other dangerous weapons which they use in committing heinous crimes against my constituents. Concerned that despite persistent cries from the affected communities, the security operatives appear not being proactive especially on security tip off and most times fail to respond promptly.” Supporting the motion, Hon. Bashir Babale (APC, Kano) submitted that “infrastructure has collapsed where banditry takes place.” He compared the Jonathan administration with the present one, saying that it was wrong to have accused the erstwhile government of being docile. Others who supported the motion include Gabriel Onyenweife (PDP, Anambra), Chika Adamu (APC, Niger), Useni Moriki (APC, Zamfara) and Awaji Abinte (APC, Bayelsa) Making his remarks, the Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, said that it was necessary to invite the President for an address since the issue of banditry has become national. Adopting the motion, the House called on the Federal Government to deploy the military to the areas under attack to assist the police and other security agencies in flushing out the criminal elements operating in the constituency. It also called for the declaration of state of emergency in the area while urging the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to urgently provide relief materials to the victims of the attacks. Whether the President would honour the second invitation is still a matter of conjecture and left to be seen. Although, the 1999 constitution (as amended) has empowered the National Assembly to summon anybody, no president since the return of democracy in 1999 has ever appeared before any chamber of the national parliament. Drawing from this practice, President Buhari is most unlikely to visit the House of Representatives to give his perspective on the state of insecurity in the nation. Perhaps, the House would in the days ahead extend the invitation to service chiefs and the minister of Defence, who are most likely to comply.