Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa is the president of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN). In this interview, he discusses the chances of eliminating malaria from African continent, the negative impact counterfeit medicines play in the fight against malaria parasite, the role of individuals in the prevention and management of the disease, among others. APPOLONIA ADEYEMI reports   Possibility to eliminate malaria from Africa
My answer to whether there is possibility to eliminate malaria from the African continent is, ‘Yes, it is possible’. Why I said this is because there was a time we had Yore disease. There was a time that leprosy was seriously ravaging Nigerians. Also, tuberculosis (TB) was also a serious problem at some point, but it’s getting to elimination level currently. My issue is that we’ve had diseases that we have eliminated.
We are close to eliminating polio, but it’s not eliminated yet. When we move from 100 t0 70, 60, 50, 30, 10 to 20, it shows that its possible to eliminate malaria.
Whatever makes us get to 10 in the elimination chart, can make us finish eliminating the disease, but so often, we lose focus.
There was a change of government in 2015. Between 2010 to 2015, there was an old government in place. Based on the change of government, the momentum in several activities in governance went down. Before the new government starts trying it’s own way out. The sustainability of programmes, policies and projects is part of our problem. It’s part of our unfortunate tradition that we do not sustain things.
However, if we remain consistent and realise that this is one country, it’s one nation and whether you belong to one political party or the other, it’s one country. It doesn’t matter who takes the credit.
Meanwhile what’s seen as another man’s project is not personal to that man. Is that same project not for the good of the people? So, its possible to eliminate malaria from Africa including Nigeria. Does fake drugs contribute to persistence of malaria?
Certainly, fake drugs contribute to continued rise of malaria disease. Fake drug is an issue. When you look at Nigeria with all its negative statistics in health care, fake drugs are a contributor across the board. There’s no gainsaying about that and that is why we must take the matter relating to fake medicines with all the seriousness we can muster.
I am happy that the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is pushing, the pharmaceutical industries are pushing, Pharmacists are pushing as well to bring down the rate of fake drugs in circulation.
One way we can achieve that is to ensure the source of our drugs; let’s avoid buying drugs from the open markets, from the streets and from moving markets, moving bicycles, itinerant hawkers. These sources are the surest opportunity to get fake drugs. The probability is so high. Most of the drugs from these sources were not only faked from where they were made, some have been damaged by their physical environment.
So, let’s advise consumers of medicines to go to Pharmacists to buy drugs. Advise people to go to hospitals and get proper prescriptions. Therefore, consumers should go to Pharmacies to get drugs. People should source medicines from retail pharmacies or from cocommunity Pharmacies.
If you must buy elsewhere, go to registered patent medicine vendor with Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) license. Also, you can buy the medicine that the patent-medicine vendor has been licensed to store. Otherwise, the medicine vendor would have obtained that drug he wasn’t licensed to sell from a wrong source. If he’s not licensed to sell antibiotics he would have got it from a wrong source.
If I buy medicine that doesn’t work I lose my health. Meanwhile, health is wealth. Sustainable actions parents can take to eliminate malaria
Whatever action we are taking to eliminate malaria should be sustainable. First are we cleaning our environment? When people present with symptoms of malaria, do we get them investigated and then treated? Do they just ignore the symptoms, take two tablets of paracetamol, forget and end it there? We do all these types of practices.
On the contrary, when your child develops malaria symptoms, they should be taken to hospitals, or at least could be taken to a registered pharmacy. If the affected person is a small child and has high temperature, he should be taken to the hospital. This is because many things could be responsible for high temperature.
I believe that we can eliminate malaria if we get all of us to take deliberate actions to prevent and fight the disease. It is important that we collectively take actions to prevent malaria. Does drug resistance malaria exist?
If you take anti-malaria drugs when you do not have malaria, it is not what causes resistance. What causes resistance is inadequate dose when you have malaria. When you take antimalaria when you don’t have malaria, it does not mask the underlining disease. There may be an underlining disease, but if you take an anti-malaria it can give you a temporary relief. Suppose that disease is also a killer.
Secondly, every drug is a potential poison. If the drug does not find malaria parasite to kill, it may kill something that looks like malaria parasite and that could be yourself.
When you subject a lesser dose to a medical condition, the bacteria will learn how to resist. But if you take a full dose when you don’t have a disease, it doesn’t lead to resistance. What it does is that it causes you other disease. When you take a medicine there is an adverse effect, but because when we do the risk-benefit ratio, we find that it is better to hurt the disease and suffer the adverse effect.
Rather than avoid adverse effect and let the disease kill you, you just have to make the choice. The best thing is not to take medicine at all if it’s possible to avoid medicines. What happens to those dealing in malaria-elimination products, if malaria is ultimately eliminated?
All over the world when you solve one problem, the solution of that problem creates another problem. Did we have HIV/AIDS before? Now its there. Besides, new diseases will come up because of the corruption of man. Man keeps corrupting himself and the system. Sometimes, man thinks he’s wise. God says this is where to go, man says ‘No, I am wise’ because he feels that he’ sophisticated.
However, let malaria be eliminated, then we can go to wellness. If there’s no disease to treat we can sustain our wellness.
In some developed world, they are not talking about malaria. They create places for persons to go and have fun, enjoy life for business opportunities or tourist attraction. Here in our own clime, we are still inviting malaria; there’s no place for tourism. But when we tackle malaria, then we can focus on sustaining quality of life and lifestyle. Lifestyle could then become an issue and a big business. Hence, let’s work to make malaria go. Do we control malaria, eradicate or eliminate the disease?
Of course, there’s a continuum. In the life of everything there’s time to be born, time to grow, time to contract, time to expand, and time to die. Similarly. At some point, every problem will end, even if we didn’t do anything. The word of God says there’s time to die, there’s time to be hungry. Even without doing anything it will happen; there’s a circle things follow. The only time we intervene is that often the time between one phase and the other is too long, often prompting human intervention. We want to eliminate malarkia, showing zero case
The world community is saying we should work to achieve zero case in malaria; Nigeria shouldn’t drag the world back. That’s what Nigeria has always done; it has always dragged the world back. On the contrary, zero malaria is possible, but shows where we are is statistics
From control we can come to elimination if we harness our efforts. The problem why the call for elimination is being made is that if one man does it and his neighbours are not doing it, he has wasted his time. It cannot have an impact. Hence, we all must together clean our environment, take the appropriate medication when necessary and then we will see everything working well.