The English Premier League season ended on Sunday, May 12, and the date for the start of the new season already announced.
As a matter of fact, the date was announced as far back as February 2019 while the date for the release of the new season’s fixtures was also announced.
According to the organisers of the EPL, the start of the 2019/20 season will be on Saturday, August 10, while the fixtures will be released at 09:00 BST on Thursday, June 13.
Back home in Nigeria, for years now the start of the Nigeria Professional Football League has been a mystery for the followers of the league as nothing works according to plans.
Apart from the proper calendar for the season, it is difficult to monitor the NPFL as per the commencement and the end of the season.
After several delays, the 2018/19 NPFL season began in January with the date for the last game of the campaign expected to be May 12, but this weekend will see team playing MatchDay 21 with one game remaining in the season.
Some of the delays witnessed during the season have been the issue of public holidays, breaks due to international competitions, as it happened during the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, among other things.
I think it is high time the Nigeria Football Federation, the League Management Company and all the stakeholders looked at how we can have a uniform calendar.
We can as well take a cue from the EPL and see how we can have a season devoid of unnecessary postponements or delays that have characterised Nigerian domestic leagues.
Imagine a fan was already on his way to Sagamu from Lagos for the MatchDay 20 game between Remo Stars and Enyimba on Wednesday, only to be told of the postponement till Thursday from a reporter he called for directions to the venue.
Some of the league experts who spoke with our correspondent said there was need to stabilize the NPFL to attract sponsors and a better following.
Idowu Adekunle, who has been following the league, said the organisers need to put the fans into consideration and make sure they have a standard calendar each year.
“If you look at the EPL, you are sure of when the season will start and end,” he said.
“Even if they are going to have any postponement of a game or two due to Champions League or Europa League, they are still going to maintain their calendar.
“We just have to start working on that. This will help whosoever is coming in as sponsor, even as TV rights holder, something that will move the league forward to the greater heights we have been envisaging.”
Another fan who spoke with League Rendezvous, Alex Olabelurin, said as a fan, he is not happy with the constant problems with the league.
According to him, how will the fans follow the league when they are not even sure of the yearly calendar.
He however called on the LMC to find a lasting solution to the problems ahead of the 2019/2020 season expected to start later in the year.