Pensioners in Oyo State have lamented unpaid arrears of gratuities and pensions totaling N62.5billion being owed them by the outgoing government of the state.  Speaking with newsmen yesterday, Secretary of retired Primary School teachers, Comrade Tunji Ogunwale, and Secretary, Nigerian Union of Pensioners, Oyo State, Comrade Segun Abatan, explained that unpaid pensions and gratuities to retired primary school teachers and civil servants had made it difficult for retirees in the state to rest after their labour.  While blaming political office holders who gave themselves life pensions after serving for four years for their act of inhumanity, Abatan proposed that workers should also serve for four years and get their life pensions. According to him, it amounted to cheating and exploitation of the common patrimony by the political class to do nothing for the people, yet enjoying life pensions, insisting that “what is good for the goose is good for the gander. Pension for political office holders is killing the nation. “It is workers today, pensioners tomorrow.  How can somebody serve for four years and continue to take life pension? If that is it, then we want to propose that workers should also serve for four years, get out and take their pension for life. Let us see if the economy of this country is going to sustain it,” he said.  Regarding the unpaid arrears of pension by the outgoing Governor Abiola Ajimobi’s government, the duo said pensioners were owed between eight to sixty  months while lamenting that some pensioners received two thousand naira as pension in the state. Secretary of retired primary school teachers, Comrade Tunji Ogunwale said “today Oyo State government owes us N62.5billion.  “That is the amount of gratuities left unpaid. I am personally being owed thirty-five months pension arrears. They owe some of us sixty months; some fifty-five and some of us forty months. “It varies from eight to sixty months. He has never paid anybody gratuity since eight years ago. If we had not gone to court, that means he would not have deemed it fit to pay a dime for eight years”, he said.