The President of Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) Rev. Dr. Stephen Panya Baba has said the Church no longer have hope on the Federal Government on the release of  Leah Sharibu and Nurse Alice who are in the captivity of Boko Haram. Rev. Panya while Speaking to Journalists in Jos said the Federal Government’s several assurances don’t longer mean anything to the church saying that the church now depends only on God’s intervention. According to him both Leach and Alice, a Lady Nurse with UNICEF are members of ECWA church who were captured with others by the  Boko Haram “Leach is member of this church likewise Alice, a lady Nurse with the UNICEF who was  also captured by the  Boko Haram while Leah parents are in pain and agony, Alice husband and children are also in pain and agony, the last time I visited the family of Alice,  her husband told me he  is running out of story to tell the children as to when their mother will return” He added that the best of the Federal government over the matter was not the best, saying the government can only be commended if  Leah Sharibu, Alice and others captured released from captivity. “The best of the Federal Government is not the best; their best over this issue can only be commended if Leah Sharibu, Alice and others are released from the captivity. “We keep on reemphasizing that if the federal government is able to negotiate the release of Zianab and other girls, we don’t see why it should not be successful in the negotiation towards the release of Leah Sharibu. “We have reached a point where our hope and assurances from the Federal government don’t even mean anything to us again; we are now depending on God. “We are praying that God should intervene, if the Lord still use Nigeria government glory be to Him but in term of really having confidence in the government, our confidence over this period has been eroded, we are calling on the International community to come in and do something, may be pressure from the international community will spur the government to do what it supposed to do” he said.