 …gain $212.22m in 2 weeks The nation’s external reserves have hit an eight-month high of $45 billion and could be set to climb even further as rising tensions in the Middle East, coupled with new International Maritime Organisation (IMO) rules, spark predictions of crude oil rising to $90 per barrel. According to data obtained from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the reserves steadily rose from $44.792 billion on May 2nd to $45.004 billion on May 16th. This means that the reserves increased by $212.22 million in the two-week period. New Telegraph’s analysis of the apex bank’s data shows that the last time the  reserves hit the $45 billion mark was on September 18 last year when the country’s foreign exchange buffers stood at $45.002 billion. Significantly, after jumping to a four-year high of $47 billion in April last year, the reserves began to decline in the following month. In fact, the downtrend persisted from July last year until the reserves stabilized, rising from $42.296 billion as at February 28 to $44.428 billion on March 29 this year. They further inched up to $44.792 billion as at the end of April.  Analysts attribute the reserves accretion in the last few months to the increase in crude oil price, as well as huge dollar injections by foreign portfolio investors who, following the conclusion of the elections, have sought to take advantage of double digit interest rates on Nigeria’s fixed income instruments, namely treasury bills and FGN bonds. Specifically, the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, had disclosed in March that an inflow of over $6.0 billion was recorded in the naira bond market post- election. However, with oil exports still accounting for over 90 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings, the recent increase in the prices of the commodity due to escalating tensions in the Middle East means that the country’s external reserves could continue to grow in the short term, thereby giving the CBN more ammunition to defend the naira. Indeed, in a recent interview with CNBC, Head of Global Commodity Strategy at RBC Capital Markets, Helima Croft, predicted that tensions in key international waterways, occasioned by concerns that the United States and Iran are on the verge of a major conflict, could drive Brent crude from its current price range of between $70 and $73 per barrel to above $80 this summer. In response to the sanctions imposed on his country by the U.S., the Iranian President, Hassan Rouhani, had threatened to close the Strait of Hormuz, the world’s busiest transit lane for seaborne oil shipments. With approximately 20 per cent of all seaborne crude and condensates passing through the Strait of Hormuz, analysts anticipate short-term upside risk to prices if Iran followed through on the threat. But Croft also stated that apart from Hormuz, the conflict in Yemen could also negatively impact oil shipments off the coast of that country. Similarly, in a note issued at the weekend, Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BofAML) warned that Brent crude oil could reach $90 per barrel due to new IMO rules regarding shipping fuels and a weaker dollar courtesy of a de-escalation in the US/China trade war. BofAML projected that the IMO rules regarding the allowable sulphur content, to take effect in 2020, could cause a spike in middle distillate demand, thereby pushing up prices upward. In a recent report, analysts at Nairametrics pointed out that in addition to helping to defend the naira and also settle international payment transactions, Nigeria’s external reserves also represent a form of wealth accumulation portfolio for future consumption purposes. According to the analysts: “The $39.9 billion the CBN injected into the forex market in 2018 and the relative stability of the exchange rate is traceable to the periodic intervention by the CBN. Hence, the rising external reserve has been a buffer to stabilise the naira.”     