 The sorry state of Nigeria’s textile industry was again re-echoed yesterday by the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who noted that over 150 factories had died in the last 20 years due to various factors including smuggling and dumping. Emefiele, who disclosed the development during the official flag off ceremoquality nies to distribute seeds and other inputs to cotton farmers in Katsina, recalled that the past 20 years had been very difficult for the cotton, textiles and garment sector as farmers and processors have had to deal with low quality seeds, rising operating cost and weak sales due to high energy cost of running factories, smuggling of textile goods, and poor access to finance. Specifically, he said smuggling of textiles goods alone was also estimated to cost the nation over $2.2 billion annually just as the country currently spends about $4 billion annually on importation of various textile products. The CBN governor also said that the bank was currently investigating individuals and firms involved in smuggling the 42 other items restricted from foreign exchange into country, noting that after investigations, the names of the individuals and companies would be made public. Emefiele recalled that in the 70’s and early 80’s, Nigeria was home to Africa’s largest textile industry, with over 180 textile mills in operation. “This industry employed over 450,000 people. The textile industry then, represented close to 25 per cent of the workforce in the manufacturing sector. Beyond the jobs created in the factories, this industry was supported by the production of cotton by 600,000 local farmers across 30 of Nigeria’s 36 states, thousands of ginnery workers who processed the cotton from farmers, and a large number of distributors that sold the finished cloths to consumers. “The sector supported the clothing needs of the Nigerian populace, as our markets were filled with locally produced textiles from companies such as Kaduna Textiles Mill, United Textiles, Supertex Limited, International Textile Industry (ITI), Texlon, Enpee and Aswani Mills amongst several others. “The cloths produced in these factories were highly sought after not only in Nigeria, but in West Africa and, indeed, in Great Britain. At one point, our industries produced close to half of the cotton cloth in all of West Africa. “Today, due to the unfortunate activities of smugglers and dumpers, most of the factories mentioned above have all stopped operations, as only 25 textile factories are operating today, and the workforce in Nigeria’s textile industry presently stands at less than 20,000 people. In addition, a large proportion of our clothing materials are now being imported from China and countries in Europe.” According to him, “Today, Nigeria currently spends about $4 billion annually on imported textiles and ready-made clothing. With a projected population of over 190 million Nigerians, the needs of the domestic market are huge and varied, with immense prospects for growth of the domestic textile industries. “One quick example that highlights the potential of this local market includes the need to support provision of uniforms and clothing apparels for students, military and paramilitary officers as well as workers in the industrial sector. In addition, when we consider the amount spent on outfits for religious and social events such as weddings, naming and funeral ceremonies on a weekly basis, the potential market size is well over $4 billion.” The CBN governor also observed that with a population of over 190 million people, Nigeria clearly stands out as a virgin market that must be tapped, stressing that if the country was serious or determined in its drive to create jobs on a mass scale and reduce youth restiveness in Nigeria, the cotton, textiles and garments industry could not be ignored. He said: “Consequently, the current trend where all our textile materials are imported from abroad must stop. It also means we must all join hands to fight and destroy all attempts by unscrupulous persons and companies to continue to smuggle and dump textile and garments into Nigeria. “In considering the role which this sector plays in our economic development, we must not just consider the fact of productivity, but must also view the sector from the standpoint that their existence helps in sustaining the vitality of the neighbourhoods in which they operate. “With the death of these industries, came a rise in unemployment, insecurity and other negative social vices. We must reverse this trend. In doing this, the CBN is currently gathering data about, and investigating the accounts of individuals and corporates currently involved in smuggling and dumping textile materials into Nigeria. “This investigation is also being extended to the 42 other items restricted from foreign exchange in Nigeria. After our investigations, the names of these individuals and companies will be publicized. And let me assure everyone that these individuals and companies will be blacklisted and all the banks in Nigeria shall be barred from conducting any banking business with the companies, their owners and top management.” He said the intervention being undertaken in the cotton, textile and garment (CTG) sector beginning from yesterday was holistic and encompassed every node of the value chain. According to him, a national committee on revamping the CTG sector, which includes the CBN, federal ministries of Agriculture and Rural Development; Water Resources; Industry, Trade and Investment; and the governments of Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Gombe and Zamfara states, has been constituted to drive the initiative to achieve self-sufficiency in cotton production and textile material within a span of three years. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, said agriculture remains the single solution to banditry, kidnapping and farmers/ herdsmen’s clashes. In his remarks, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina said that agriculture was the next sector that the state government accorded priority after education. He said that reviving the textile industry was the biggest and quickest way of solving unemployment in the country and commended the CBN for its efforts in that direction. Masari, however, urged the CBN to review procedures for accessing loan facilities by the farmers. In his goodwill address, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano commended President Muhammadu Buhari for taking the agric sector to the next level. He said that since the country now had committed leadership, there was also the need to have commitments from the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and strong monitoring from the central government to achieve the desired goal. “We need to be serious in all the steps that we have taken in order to succeed, because the importation of textile materials is at the expense of textile industries in the country,” he said. Nigeria spends $4bn yearly on cloth import Emefiele: I’m retiring in June The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has restricted access to forex for importation of all forms of textile materials into the country. Apex bank governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who announced the fresh restriction yesterday in Abuja at a… In “News” In a space of three weeks, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) rolled out two interventions in agriculture value chain, ostensibly to breathe life into them. Abdulwahab Isa reports   For exigency purposes, which Nigeria economy requires at this time, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has taken it upon… In “Business” Mr. Anibe Achimugu is the National President of National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN). Elated with measures outlined by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to resuscitate textile and cotton sector, he says the apex bank’s package is the best so far. He also speaks to Abdulwahab Isa on issues… In “Business”