The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately end his private visit to London and return home to face the deteriorated security situation in the country. The party, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it was unacceptable for President Buhari to abandon his responsibilities, as the commander-in-chief in the face of increasing security challenges in the country. PDP noted that bandits, marauders and insurgents have seized the nation, maiming, kidnapping and killing innocent citizens while the president embarked on unexplained private matters in foreign lands. “President Buhari’s inattention has emboldened insurgents and bandits to continue to overrun communities, unleash mayhem and bloodletting on citizens in Borno, Zamfara, Yobe, Adamawa, Gombe Taraba, Kaduna, Benue, Kogi and other states of the federation, including Mr. President’s home state, Katsina. “While President Buhari wanders abroad, bandits are having a field day, pillaging communities in Katsina State; killing several persons and abducting the district head of his hometown, Daura, Musa Umar; the father in-law of Mr. President’s security aide,” the party further stated. According to the PDP, within this period the president was away, marauders invaded communities in Adamawa and killed no fewer than 26 Nigerians while many more were killed in Borno, Taraba, Benue and Zamfara states. It also noted the reported attack on Government Girls Secondary School Moriki in Zamfara State by bandits whom allegedly kidnapped some people. PDP accused the Buhari administration of nonchalance, adding that kidnappers have taken over many major highways in the country. “It is clear that President Buhari has not demonstrated required capacity to control the security situation and now resorts to cheap escapism, particularly in the face of allegations in the public space that certain individuals around his administration are benefitting from the situation. “This is in addition to allegations that some of the bandits arrested, in states such as Katsina, are not Nigerians, but aliens allegedly imported by the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Niger Republic to assist it in unleashing violence and rigging the 2019 general election,” the party said. It called on the police to investigate the alleged links, but stating that President Buhari has failed the country. “In fact, his dereliction of duty is a clear signal that he has been practically overwhelmed, deflated and has nothing to offer. “The situation in Nigeria today signposts the terrible condition our nation will face if the Presidential mandate is not retrieved at the tribunal to enable competent and uncompromised hands to run the affairs of our country,” PDP added. One of the reasons Nigerians decided to sack the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government led by former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 was the spate of insecurity in the country, especially the Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East. Although, there were cases of kidnappings, armed robberies and other similar vices… In “Editorial” One of the reasons Nigerians decided to sack the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government led by former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 was the spate of insecurity in the country, especially the Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East. Although, there were cases of kidnappings, armed robberies and other similar vices… In “Editorial” Presidency: You destroyed Nigeria's security   The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari has failed as Command-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, leading to the death of soldiers by insurgents in Maiduguri, Borno State, last week. The party also rejected any plan by Buhari to send representative… In “News”