 Indications were rife that the Federal Government would soon reduce the 13 per cent tariff on importation of vessels and vessel parts as the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has disclosed that it is in discussion with the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) on the need to create a special tariff regime for those importing vessels and vessel parts into the country. NIMASA also disclosed that it has commenced regulatory reforms to ensure a business friendly maritime environment to spur economic growth hinged on both foreign and indigenous investors. Director General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dakuku Peterside, who disclosed this at the ongoing Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) in Houston Texas, assured the international community that the agency is committed to growing in-country capacity so that collaboration between Nigerian and foreigners can take place without fear of compromising standards. He said: “At the moment, a temporary import permit mainly granted foreigners attract just one per cent but importing vessel by Nigerians attract 13 per cent, so it is difficult to compete. We are engaging the Nigeria Customs Service on the need to review this regime. We have also made appreciable progress in our discussions with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to see Nigerians in the maritime sector have access to single digit facilities so that they can compete favorably with their international peers. “We are building up capacity, and creating the right regulatory framework for the Nigerian maritime sector. We believe that our three dimensional approach of creating the right regulatory environment, providing easy asses to capital, build capacity, and facilitate access to business opportunities will hasten the indigenous capacity development…,” he said.  Also addressing journalists at a technical workshop on deep sea exploration on the sidelines of the OTC, the Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Transportation Alhaji Sabiu Zakari noted that Nigeria is aware of the drift towards deep sea exploration and policies to enhance effective maritime transport are now being considered by the Federal Government.  He assured the international oil and gas community that the Nigerian maritime sector is safe for investment and special tax regime are under consideration to grow capacity for the industry in the country.
Alhaji Zakari said the report by the International Maritime Bureau that piracy has declined in Nigerian waters in the first quarter of 2019 is an attestation that government’s efforts in safety and security in the maritime sector has started yielding fruits. “Nigerian waters are safe. NIMASA’s deep blue project in collaboration with the Nigerian Navy, and all other security agencies in Nigeria is already in motion and will use the latest technology to track all vessels in Nigerian waters and reduce criminality to the barest minimum…,” he said.