 Transcorp Hilton Abuja has commenced its annual Careers@Hilton Live: Youth in Hospitality Month, the hotel brand largest global career event. The hotel is hosting series of events devoted to exposing people, particularly youths, to exciting opportunities available in the hospitality industry. The initiative is part of Bright Blue Futures, a global programme that encourages Hilton team members to donate their time and expertise to help young people pursuing professional development. On May 7 the hotel hosted a career fair dedicated to youth to interact with team members and familiarise them with Hilton’s organisational culture. Over 300 students drawn from 15 secondary schools in Abuja participated in the event. Also in attendance were 45 young men and women who are part of the four weeks hospitality internship programme in the hotel. The participants took part in a guided tour of the hotel’s facilities, followed by exhibition with professionals from all areas of activity at the hotel. Through career speed networking, team members shared advice on the skills and attributes participants need for their chosen careers.
In his remarks, the General Manager of Transcorp Hilton Abuja, Kevin Brett, said: “Young people continue to face challenging employment prospects, so it is more important than ever to make sure they receive information and advice about the options available and the skills and attributes they will need once they embark on their chosen careers. ‘‘We are passionate about raising awareness of the opportunities the hospitality industry offers and we are delighted to be doing this during the month of May when we are celebrating 100 Years of Hilton.” While the hotel’s Director of Human Resources, Omorinsola Sofola, disclosed that: “The activities we have put in place for this year’s Careers@Hilton are a great way to engage and inspire the youth and we are delighted to be part of such a fantastic initiative.’’ Careers@Hilton Live: Youth in Hospitality Month is a part of Hilton Worldwide’s Open Doors commitment, which aims to positively impact at least one million young people by 2019 and better prepare them to reach their full potential.