…pass confidence vote in INEC  Ahead of the 2023 general election, political parties in the country yesterday told the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to hold all the elections, including the chairmanship/ councillorship of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja on the same day. This, according to the parties, is in order to address dwindling turnout of voters after the first election as well as increase the zeal to elect credible leaders. “This will save cost, ensure emergence of quality leadership, the integrity of the ballot, large voter turnout and guarantee improved security on Election Day,” the parties stated in a communiqué. The parties spoke at a roundtable on the review of the conduct of the 2019 general election held in Abuja. Organised by Centre for Transparent Advocacy (CTA) in conjunction with chairmen of political parties that participated in the last general election, the roundtable, however, passed a vote of confidence in INEC. About 75 political parties attended the roundtable, which also has the immediate past vice president of Sierra Leone, Alhaji Sam Sumana, as guest of honour. The roundtable noted that INEC tried to assert its independence during the elections, citing the denial of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to field candidates in Rivers and Zamfara states. But the group blamed operatives of security agencies, particularly the military and the police, for whatever shortcomings that might have been witnessed in the election. It condemned what it described as the hypocrisy of the leadership of the security agencies as well as the unprofessional conducts of security agents, which it noted manifested in the partisan deployment of police and security personnel to polling station/ voting point. “The roundtable condemned the role of some overzealous police officers and soldiers who compromised standards and engaged in acts contrary to their calling. Such erring officers should be identified and punished in accordance with the law,” it demanded. The communiqué further noted that given the number of registered parties and presidential candidates, INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu “did very well under a very difficult circumstance.” “The roundtable noted that INEC executed the election within its mandate in terms of monitoring campaigns by political parties, distribution of electoral materials, polling and counting of ballots, but had pitfalls at the collation stage and announcement of results,” the parties stated. While commending the commission for the conduct of the elections, the roundtable called on INEC to strengthen the capacity of its polling staff through training and retraining, particularly on the handling of the card readers, “assisting voters as well as other electoral procedures to ensure transparency and credibility during future elections.” “INEC should consider recruiting permanent staff whose schedule should be collation of results; train them thoroughly for the assignment to save the nation the embarrassment of ad hoc collation officers. “INEC is requested to replicate the National Collation Centre in all the states and local government councils and same to the INEC server, to minimize the collation errors and promote easy access to electoral information and results,” the communiqué stated. It, however, demanded the establishment of electoral offences tribunal to try electoral offenders, which it said, should be structured to take off less than a month after election petitions tribunal hearings have concluded. The roundtable further called on the National Assembly to immediately re-present to President Muhammadu Buhari the amended electoral bill while the president, on his part, should do the needful by signing the bill into law. On the deployment of security personnel during elections, the roundtable called for proper coordination of Inter Agency Committee on Election Security (ICES) as well as non-partisan deployment of security personnel to all the polling units to ensure peaceful conduct of polls. Political parties, on their part, were advised to maintain internal democracy “and engage in transparent primaries to select their candidates with less rancour, and minimize defections. “Parties are equally requested to review their manifestoes to strengthen their ideologies and loyalties and stem intra-party conflicts that bedevil the nation’s polity.” It also noted that in spite of various meetings organised by INEC to sensitise stakeholders ahead of the election on the need to avoid underage voting, vote-buying, ensure transparency and secrecy of voting, party agents and voters still crowd the voting points in order to identify the candidates voted for. The roundtable stated that cases of underage voting, vote-buying and voter suppression reported at different parts of the country without relevant authorities acting is gravely condemnable. Acting Executive Director, CTA, Faith Nwadishi, in her welcome address, stated that INEC, as the umpire of the general election, proved its independence “in the way and manner it responded to the unexpected challenges thrown its way by the stakeholders in the process and other unforeseen circumstances during the last general election.” Nwadishi noted that the commission, in its determination to follow the rules, withheld certificates of return of politicians who allegedly perpetrated violence and intimidated its officials and ad hoc staff, during the elections. “Our elections have seemingly been characterized by brazen and scandalously high level of votebuying and selling. “The desperation showed by some individuals at the last elections calls for concern,” she said, and called for suggestions on how to tackle the problem in future elections. National Chairman, Inter- Party Advisory Council (IPAC), Mr. Peter Ameh, called on stakeholders to brainstorm with INEC on reforms that would create atmosphere for credible polls in 2023. Former Sierra Leonean Vice President, Sumana, urged politicians in Africa to strive for political transformation of the continent. Some party chairmen who attended the roundtable include Peter Ameh of Peoples Progressive Alliance (PPA), Prof. Godswill Nnaji of Better Nigeria Peoples Party (BNPP), Alhaji A. A. Slam of Labour Party, Alhaji Nalado of Accord, Mrs. Georgenia Dakuku of Young Peoples Party (YPP), as well as Godson Okoye of United Democratic Party (UDP) among others.