The Ondo State National Assembly and the State House of Assembly election petitions tribunal has cautioned parties in seven petitions brought before it, against frivolous applications that will portray the panel as unserious court. Chairman of the three man-election petitions tribunal, Justice Nuhu Adi, who issued the warning at the panel’s inaugural sitting in Akure, said the panel only had 180days under the Electoral Act to determine the seven petitions pending before it.
Justice Adi, however, assured that the tribunal’s members would deploy high level of professionalism, legal skills and transparency to ensure that both petitioners and the respondents got justice as required by the law.
Seven states and federal lawmakers-elect are facing sack should the tribunal uphold petitions against them. The petitions including the Mega Party against Senator Ajayi Boroffice for Ondo North Senatorial District which the Mega Party had already promised to withdraw. But members of the party disagreed with the Chairman of the party, Prince Biyi Poroye and decided to go ahead with the petition. Also, Omotadowa Smart is challenging the election of Akingbaso Festus of the PDP for Idanre State Constituency as well as Abayomi Akinfemiwa of the PDP, seeking nullification of the victory of a member of House of Representatives, Mr. Mayowa Akinfolarin of the APC for Ileoluji/Okeigbo/ Odigbo Federal Constituency. Other petitions including Mr. Ojogo Donald of the APC, who is asking the court to sack Akinjo Kolade of the PDP for Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency; Oladapo Abiola of the PDP praying the tribunal to nullify the election that produced Williams Adewale of the APC for Ondo West State Constituency-2; Albert Akintoye of the APC seeking the removal of Ikengboju Gboluga of the PDP as the lawmaker-elect for Okitipupa/Irele Federal Constituency as well as Falana Tajudeen of the Action Alliance against the re-election of a state lawmaker, Felemu Olusegun of the APC for Akoko South-West State Constituency-2.
However, Justice Adi in his prepared speech said “we therefore solicit the maximum cooperation of all that involved in this exercise particularly the legal representatives of the parties in all the petitions.” He went on: “The hearing of the petitions shall be on a day-to-day basis, including public holidays in order to meet up with 180 days period provided for the hearing and determination of each petition.
“The parties are hereby enjoined to be ready to work within the mandatory period stipulated by the law. The panel shall remain in absolute and firm control of the court until the exercise is over. “On this note, the tribunal shall not condone or allow frivolous applications calculated to draw back the proceedings. Unnecessary application for adjournment of a matter would not be entertained,as undue delay would portray the Tribunal as unserious.”
”
“Any ploy by any counsel to waste the precious time of the Tribunal by engaging in asking irrelevant questions during cross-examination of witnesses shall not be tolerated.
“We assure you that in the quest to get the truth of the matter before us, we shall exercise our judicial function in utmost good faith and we shall work with open mind without any form of bias. We also pledge not to lend ourselves to any form of influence or inducement.”