There was pandemonium at the burial ceremony of the late Major General David Ejoor (rtd) yesterday, when former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, slumped during the graveside prayers for the deceased in Ovwor-Olomu, Ughelli South area of Delta State. Reports say the 84-yearold former military officer was resuscitated by emergency personnel at the event. The occurrence temporarily sent panic across the dignitaries which include the Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa; his Edo State counterpart, Mr. Godwin Obaseki; the Chief of Army Staff, Major General Tukur Buratai and former Delta State Governor, Chief James Ibori. Other present were the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori, Service Chiefs, other retired military officers, politicians and chiefs from the Urhobo ethnic nationality and wellwishers who were at the occasion. But that did not deter the former Head of State and the two governors from giving their goodwill messages and preaching peaceful co-existence towards a more united and progressive Nigeria. In their separate remarks, the trio said no sacrifice was out of place to make peace and unity should be the bedrock of existence in the country. Gowon said: “I thank you all for coming to this ceremony, we served in the Nigerian Army so many years ago and I am delighted with the encomiums poured on the deceased who was a good soldier and a good family man,” adding that Nigerians should continue to make sacrifices for the peace and unity of the country. In his remark, Obaseki said: “Even in our grief, we are spurred more to honour a man of many achievements and contributions to humanity. In my role as the current governor of Edo State, which is an offshoot of the Mid-West Region where Gen. David Ejoor etched his enviable path of leadership, I think we owe him a sea of gratitude for erecting a right beacon of leadership which I am proud to emulate and follow. “Maj. Gen. David Ejoor’s spectacular contributions to the struggle of keeping Nigeria as a united entity will remain salutary in the annals of our common history. He will be richly acclaimed because of his love and struggle for the peaceful coexistence of the different ethnic regions in Nigeria and the progress of the entire country.” On his part, Okowa thanked Nigerians for attending the burial ceremony, noting that; “we referred to Ejoor as daddy; he was a distinguished elder statesman and if we believe in the thoughts that he had, we will have a great nation, a nation that is peaceful and united. “He had all the attributes a man should have; a quality human being who cared for his family and the nation and those of us that live should emulate the qualities that he had to make our country better.” Obaseki recalled that as a former Military Administrator of Midwest State, comprising Delta and Edo states, the deceased deserved to be honoured for erecting structures for future leaders of the two states to build on. “His spectacular contributions to the unity of Nigeria will continue to be acknowledged,” he said, while Rev. Fr. Greg Umukoro, observed that the deceased, “led a good life of service to the nation and humanity.” “Ejoor will forever be remembered for his fervent belief in true federalism, his pioneering role in drafting the Nigeria Defence Policy with the full support of the Nigerian military. “The manner in which the Nigerian military is represented on this occasion to honour this great general lends credence to the rich legacy and life he lived. “As the world stands in awe of the departed elder statesman who died at the ripe age of 87, I join thousands all over the world today, particularly his immediate family, the Urhobo nation and the Nigerian Military, on behalf of myself and good people of Edo State to wish our dearly beloved father, a deserving farewell.”