…says it won’t accept candidates’ list from improper primaries    The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has so far withdrawn 64 Certificates of Return, including the 36 withdrawn from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State.
The certificates have been re-issued to persons declared winners by the courts, following the 2019 general election.
Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at the presentation of certificates of return to Zamfara State governor-elect and National Assembly members-elect yesterday in Abuja, said there are 809 pre-election cases arising from last year’s political party primaries still pending in various courts across the country.
“At the moment, there are 809 pre-election cases pending in various courts across the country challenging the conduct of primaries by political parties for the 2019 general election.
“This is clearly more than the total number of petitions currently before the various election petition tribunals nationwide challenging the outcome of the main election.
“In our last update, the Commission reported that 25 certificates of return had been withdrawn and issued to persons declared winners by courts of law. Since then, three more certificates have been withdrawn by court order.
“With the Zamfara case, the figure has now risen to 64. In addition, the Commission is studying nine more judgements we were served in the last one week in which primary elections conducted by different political parties were upturned by the courts,” he said.
Yakubu warned that it would no longer accept names of candidates from political parties which failed to conduct proper primaries.
“Going forward, we will not accept the submission of names of candidates by political parties under Section 31of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) unless there is evidence, monitored by the commission, of compliance with the provision of Section 87 of the Act.
“Party members interested in contesting elections start as aspirants before they emerge as candidates through the democratic process of direct or indirect primaries enshrined in Section 87 of the Electoral Act.
“It is only after they comply with this requirement of the law can their names be submitted to INEC under Section 31,” Yakubu stated.
He stressed the importance of political parties to conduct credible primaries for the nomination of candidates, adding that the nation’s democracy and the electoral process “cannot be virile unless political parties rise to the challenge of internal party democracy.
“It is in this context that the latest judgements of the Supreme Court are crucial steps in strengthening our electoral jurisprudence.”
The governor-elect, Bello Mohammed Matawelle, commended INEC for ensuring level playing field for all the political parties that contested in the Zamfara elections.
He also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for non-interference in the judicial process.
Based on the order of court, the commission withdrew certificates of return from the APC candidates in Ekiti North federal constituency and Ehime-Mbano/Ihitte Uboma/Obowo federal constituency of Imo State and issued them to PDP and Accord Party respectively.
In Darazo state constituency of Bauchi State, the commission withdrew the certificate of a candidate of the APC and issued to the candidate of the PDP. The commission withdrew a certificate of return from APC senatorial candidate in Bauchi South senatorial district and issued to another APC candidate.
In Delta State, the commission withdrew the certificate of return issued to the candidate of the PDP in Delta North Senatorial District and issued to another candidate of the PDP.
In Oredo state constituency of Edo State, INEC withdrew a certificate of return from APC to another APC while in Akko Federal Constituency of Gombe State, a certificate of return was withdrawn from APC candidate and issued to another APC member. It was the same case in Billiri East state constituency of Gombe State, where PDP candidate lost to another PDP member.
Other constituencies where certificates of return were withdrawn from APC and issued to other candidates of the party are in Igabi Federal Constituency, Kaduna South federal constituency and Kaduna North II state constituency of Kaduna State; Takai/ Sumaila federal constituency; Gaya state constituency and Gezawa/Gabas Awa federal constituency of Kano State.
Others are in Bakori/ Danja federal constituency of Katsina State; Arewa/ Dandi federal constituency of Kebbi State; Esha/ Shawo/Igbo Idum state constituency of Kwara State; Ilorin South state constituency of Kwara State; Niger East senatorial district of Niger State and Kontagora/ Mairiga/Mashegu/Wushishi Federal Constituency.
Also, INEC withdrew certificates of return from APC candidates in Suleja/ Tafa/Gurara federal constituency and Magama/ Rijau federal constituency, as well as Lavun state constituency and Suleja state constituency, all of Niger State, and issued to other APC candidates.