Nigerians in parts of Lagos and Abuja are now enjoying free Internet services courtesy of Google, but stakeholders in the ICT sector are worried that this might have dire consequences on Internet business in the country. SAMSON AKINTARO reports   For the Nigerian government, the offer of free Internet service to Nigerians global tech company, Google, is a booster to their current agenda of boosting Internet penetration in the country to bolster economic activities. The excitement in government was so much that the deal was signed off and Google given all the permission needed without the consent of the telecom regulator, a fact, which the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) laid bare recently.
But the ‘goodwill’ gesture of Google is currently being called into question. Indeed, concerns of stakeholders in the country’s ICT sector are many over the project, but chief among that are the threat to local Internet service providers and data privacy. While the Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) in the country are fretting over possible loss of revenue due to availability of free service, other stakeholders are worried that data of Nigerians are being harvested and warehoused through the use of the free Internet service. The project
Last July, Google launched its first free Wi-Fi service for Nigerians, the Google Station, in parts of Lagos. The service, which was in partnership with Nigerian fiber cable network provider 21st Century, is now live in MMA 2, Ikeja City Mall, The Palms Lekki, Computer Village and the University of Lagos (UNILAG).
Speaking on the project, Google’s Country Director, Juliet Ehimuan-Chiazor, said the move was to ensure more participation by Nigerians in the digital economy, while noting that the initiative was targeted at a populated area with the hope that by 2019, about 10 million Nigerians must have benefited. The company noted that it planned to generate cash from the service by placing Google adverts in the login-portal, while revenue will be shared with partners who will help maintain and deploy the free Wi-Fi services.
Few months later, the free Wi-Fi initiative was also launched in Abuja
Speaking at the launch, an elated Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, after thanking the Google team for the initiative, said: “This is a very exciting day for me. A couple of months ago we were at the Silicon Valley office of Google and the CEO Sundar Pichai told me of Google Station at railway stations in India and I told him that if these work in India, we must get them to markets and places in Nigeria.”
He said Google Station in Abuja was a manifestation of that discussion with Sundar Pichai in Silicon Valley. “The more Nigerians have access to the Internet, the better for us as a country and our economy. This is in line with our vision to democratise access and we are looking to extend this to as many places as possible,” he concluded. Fear of revenue loss
Telecommunications operators in the country are, however, not at ease with the initiative, which they say is a possible threat to their business. The free Internet service, which is now active in some parts of Lagos and Abuja, is seen as fresh threat to their data revenue base.
Hitherto, the licensed operators had been lamenting on the impacts of Over the Top (OTT) services on their voice revenue with the only solace being data subscriptions. However, the Google free Wi-Fi service has thrown a new challenge in the data segment for the operators. As at last February, data subscriptions over the mobile networks stood 114 million, but the operators say revenue has not been commensurate with the increasing figure.
The fear is further heightened by alleged plans by Google to deploy Fibre Optic Cable in the country, which would allow it to deliver fast Internet service across the country free or at cheaper cost than what the licensed operators can offer.
Google is seen as one of the unlicensed OTTs riding on the telecoms infrastructure to generate revenue for themselves at the expense of licensed operators who bear the cost. According to the Executive Director of Broadbased Communications, Mr Chidi Ibisi, the Google free Internet service has compounded the OTT challenge for the licensed operators. “Who would want to subscribe for data on MTN or Glo when they can have access to free service elsewhere?, “ he quipped. “ This was how the Internet Service Providers (ISPs) started dying years ago when the mobile network operators started offering cheap data. But the real threat is still coming with the OTT’s plan to land fibre optic cable in Nigeria, when that happens, they will offer Internet service at the cheapest rate, if not free and by that time, there will be no more revenue for any ISP in Nigeria. The ISP business is about to become no business.”
Ibisi challenged the telecoms regulator, NCC, to rise up in the defence of the licensed operators in the interest of the country. “The Act that established NCC says it must regulate in the interest of the nation, this is the time for the regulator to do that,” he said.
Other stakeholders who spoke at a recent forum had urged the NCC to apply the necessary sections of the Nigeria Communications Act 2003 and stop the freebee, which has taken a toll on the business of Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in the country. The National Coordinator, Wireless Application Service Provider’ Association of Nigeria (WASPAN), Chijoke Eze, lamented that the partnership with 21st Century Technologies Limited, which is providing free Internet services in strategic locations such as Shoprite and the University of Lagos that boasts of 40,000 people, is shutting down a whole ISP out of business. He urged the NCC to reverse the partnership because it is hurting investment. Data privacy concerns
Aside the revenue threat to licensed operators, stakeholders have also expressed worry over the possibility of data harvest taking place through the free service. According to them, in a country where there is no data protection law, such initiative is an avenue for the American company to get data of Nigerians, as it pleases and use as it pleases. Apparently in response to the concerns, the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) had late last year issued stern warning to Nigerians on the use of public Internet, noting that such could expose them to cyber attacks and lead to monetary losses. The government agency regulating ICT had warned that by accessing the service, users will be sharing their personal data, which could be used inappropriately.
“Nothing is absolutely free, what Nigerians think they are enjoying today in free Internet is not really free, they are trading their data with the company offering the service and they may be monitoring everything they are doing on their phones through that,” one of the operators said. Regulator shut out
In what may be another undoing of the promoters of the free Wi-Fi initiative, the telecom regulator against the backdrop of complaints by licensed operators, recently disclosed that the deal was signed without its involvement. According to NCC’s Head of Technical Standard and Network Integrity, Bako Wakil, the Commission only got to know when the deal had been sealed and the service active.
“The only time the issue of Google free Wi-Fi service came to our attention was when they needed our assistance with our Do-Not-Disturb (DND) rule,” he said. “This is because they need to send code to the users to activate the service and they realised that with the DND enforcement, the users may not get the message, so they came to us and said help us relax this rule. We said we can’t do that and asked them, who are you in the first place? Everything was done at certain level because of the so called Ease of Doing Business; agreement had been signed and everything had been concluded before they came to us.”
Wakil added that while some operators are already complaining over the deal and its implications, the partnership for the deal was signed with one of them (the operators), who also failed to inform the regulator before signing the deal. “The licensing obligation dictates that when you are having a partnership, you must inform the regulator. For the companies that are partnering with Google, we demanded, where is the agreement you have with the company, to know what is the content, what is in it for you and what is in it for Nigeria. We have not heard from them until now”. Last line
While the licensed operators are not comfortable with the free Internet service because it threatens their business, the fact that a project of such magnitude with huge impact on the telecom sector was signed off without the knowledge of the telecom regulator calls for greater concern.