TThe Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA), one of the observer groups that monitored the 2019 General Elections, yesterday, blamed the political elite for the series of electoral fraud and violence witnessed during the last process in Nigeria. In its report on the 2019 Elections released in Abuja, the CTA said going by what transpired during the polls, politicians and security agencies have become the greatest threats to democracy in the country.  Acting Executive Director of CTA, Faith Nwadishi, who unveiled the 24-page report to the media, said oftentimes, Nigerians have blamed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for all the lapses associated with elections without looking properly at the roles of the other stakeholders in the electoral process. Nwadishi said while the electoral umpire had its own challenges and shortcomings, the political class cannot be exonerated from the malaise afflicting successive elections in Nigeria.  She said, “The politicians, their agents and thugs constituted the greatest menace in the conduct of the 2019 general elections. From brazen acts of vote buying, violent attacks on perceived opponents, intimidation and abduction of INEC officials, snatching and destruction of ballot boxes and papers to burning of INEC offices and electoral materials in Plateau, Anambra, Akwa Ibom, Imo, Benue and Abia states, the political parties and politicians showed their desperation for power.  “The resultant losses of lives and property in such places as Lagos, Rivers, Kogi, Plateau and so on and the widespread violence that attended these were recorded by our observers as perpetrated by politicians and their political thugs.  “The recruitment of thugs by the political class from one part of the country to another before the elections evidenced by the arrest of young men travelling en masse at Uyo was as never seen in the history of our elections.  “The violence that followed the elections was as a result of the hate speeches by the political class at campaigns and the conduct some of the party primaries ended in violence.  “Most political party agents seen on the field did not have proper identification tags from INEC; the parties printed their own tags for their agents. It has become a recurrent problem of the political parties not following the guidelines for party agents’ accreditation.”  According to Nwadishi, the political class mounted undue pressure on INEC throughout the election season all in a bid to compromise the electoral umpire. She, however, noted that INEC had an uphill task protecting its independence and neutrality throughout the period.  Speaking further, Nwadishi said it was INEC’s bid to exercise its independence that it took some hard decisions including those that  impacted negatively on the ruling party. She continued: “For the first time, the ruling party was prevented from presenting candidates for election in Zamfara and Rivers states because INEC insisted on following the rules. Indeed, its actions were upheld by the courts, even at the highest judicial level by the Supreme Court.  “But the most glaring evidence of INEC’s independence was how it reacted to the last-minute attempts to sabotage its preparations by some members of the political class and elements of state institutions that were supposed to help INEC with logistics for the election.   This was a high level conspiracy to force INEC to hold staggered elections because those behind the plot felt this would give them a better opportunity to manipulate the electoral outcome. “These acts of sabotage, which included the burning of INEC offices, destruction of sensitive and non-sensitive electoral materials and non  delivery of same, had the nation on tenterhooks.  But INEC weathered that storm admirably without budging. It postponed the election by a week and in that period it fixed all that was destroyed before going ahead with the election. “Of course, we did not expect that the political class would accept INEC’s exercise of its independence without a fight, but what shocked Nigerians was the extent they could go to undermine INEC. “The brazen manner the security services were used to intimidate INEC officials in their offices and on the field, was terrible.  Yet, INEC officials nationwide refused to be intimidated by threats and violence unleashed on its officials and ad-hoc staff. “Indeed, INEC’s brave conduct may have saved our nation from conflagration because it was obvious that elements of the political class, including elements of the ruling class, were bent on mayhem if they didn’t get their way.” The United States Embassy in Nigeria has thrown its weight behind international election observers on the postponement of last Saturday's presidential and parliamentary elections in the country. In a statement made available to New Telegraph, the U.S. Embassy said it fully supports the joint statement by the heads of the… In “News” The 2019 General Elections exposed a lot of the lapses in our electoral process. In this interview with ONWUKA NZESHI, the Acting Executive Director of the Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA) , Faith Nwadishi, blames the political class for the rising cases of electoral malpractices and violence during the last… In “Sunday Extra” Nigeria can avert the doomsday prophecies of violence in the forthcoming general elections, if the Independent National Electoral Commisdion (INEC) conducts the elections in strict compliance with the provisions of the Electoral Act. Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Public Procurement, Sen. Andrew Uchendu (APC/Rivers East) stated this while reacting to… In “News”