Brigadier General Ladan Yusuf (retired) is the Special Adviser on Security Matters to outgoing Governor Mohammed Abubakar of Bauchi State. In this interview with ALI GARBA, the security expert opened up on some security issues, among other matters. Excerpts…  Do you agree that the APC lost the last election because the people of Bauchi State did not enjoy peace in the last four years of Governor Mohammed Abubakar?
Bauchi State is regarded as one of the most peaceful states in the North East in spite of the onslaught of the Boko Haram insurgency. It is however regrettable that despite the genuine efforts of the outgoing administration to stem the tide of insecurity, some people are politicising the issue, a development that has almost undermined the gains recorded so far. The strategies that were used by the outgoing administration to achieve peace should not be jettisoned but be sustained by all stakeholders particularly the incoming Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration. We need to maintain the peace because Bauchi State belongs to all of us.
Life is divided into three stages; where you are coming from, where you are and where you are going to. I look at security from that perspective. When we came in, people who are fair to the government would recall that almost everyday in 2015, 2016 and part of 2017, if you are going from Toro in Toro Local Government to Bauchi, you will see people running from the hinterland. Almost all the primary schools became homes to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). Bauchi and Toro local government areas bore the brunt. In Ningi and Ganjuwa, they also experienced similar situations, almost everyday you will see IDPs coming in. Kidnappings and cattle rustling had become common issues in Toro, Ningi and Ganjuwa for obvious reasons. In Ningi there is the Lame Burra Forest used as a safe haven for some of these Boko Haram people. The kidnappers and cattle rustlers stayed in that area. That was the situation when we came in 2015. We inherited it from the previous regime. That is not to say that the previous government had done nothing. In fact, we are following some of their programmes. What did you do that you think the incoming government should replicate?
When we came in, the governor gave us free hands to operate and we came up with a plan to eradicate this problem. We used to have similar problem in Alkaleri and also in the northern part of the states, they also had their own peculiar problem of Boko Haram attacks because of their proximity to Yobe State. There were cases of people raiding banks and financial houses, attacking villages. In collaboration with the 20 local government chairmen, we came up with a plan. First and foremost, we called an expanded state security meeting whereby we tasked the chairmen of local governments and the stakeholders because security is not an exclusive preserve of the soldiers and police. It is a holistic matter that everybody should be involved.
If I can borrow the words of one of the American Generals who said strategy is a mode of survival. How do you survive as a community, as a nation, as a state? If you want to survive, everybody has to be involved and that was what we did. After calling these people, we raised the feeling of love for our own communities. The stakeholders went back and came up with their own plans. The state government bought some number of Hilus vehicles mounted with gadgets, especially communication gadgets and large quantity of motorcycles because most of the areas were not easily accessible. Some of the terrain are difficult to drive in, even during the dry season. There is what we called the sea of sand during the dry season and for you to travel from one community to another is not easy, so the state government bought large number of motorcycles, Hilus and other logistics support given to the security agencies in order to confront the situation headlong. There were fears before the 2019 general elections that Bauchi would be bloody. Are you surprised that it went peacefully?
Coming back to the society again, we solicited the support of the Council of the Ulamas to pray for us and also participate actively. Not only through prayers, also by giving information to the security agencies and where possible, participated actively. We are all living witnesses to how Boko Haram invaded Katagum but were pursued by the citizens and since that time there had not been any reported cases of incursion from Borno, Yobe and what have you. In addition to that, we also solicited the support of the pastors through CAN, and they gave us 100 percent support, preaching and talking to their members in Bauchi and other parts of the state to cooperate with the law enforcement agencies. The Ulama changed their way of preaching, talking to people. Even the schools changed their curriculum, the way they teach the almajiris. So, it was a holistic approach. If you say you will just call the police, the soldiers, give them logistics, that is not going to solve the problem.
Historically our people use to build what is called ganuwa (wall) as part of the security. Why not during our time? So, we modernise it. If you sit down and take care of police and soldiers that will not solve the problem. We also called the attention of traditional council to talk to all their members down to the village head. They were handy. So when they see any stranger in the community, the people will inform us. This is the approach. You can’t just sit down and say you are the SA on Security, you have the police, and you have the army but that will not solve the problem. So this is what we did. Initially we had to engineer almost every citizen of the state to reason with the government and see the need to come up and join hands with the government in order to reduce the security threats in the state. Mining activities are still going on in Bauchi, what are you doing to ensure that it does not degenerate to the kind of security problem in Zamfara?
Immediately I heard the news that mining was suspended in Zamfara because of the security challenges taking place there, I raised the matter with the governor in the interest of the miners. Luckily enough, the governor called an executive meeting on his return from Abuja, and I raised the issue. Being a military personnel, I asked myself some questions; what would be the consequences in Bauchi State? I realised that there are many. If these people move to Bauchi State, what will happen? They will increase the number of miners in the state. During the meeting, it was agreed that all the commissioners should go back to their communities because they are representing their local government areas. They should go and educate their people on the happenings in Zamfara. We were so proactive. We asked everybody to go and tell the people that any new face they see, whether a miner or not, the DSS, the military and the police should be informed so that they can look at it. Three days later, the Commissioner for Solid Minerals called a meeting to address the same issue with all the miners and I was in that meeting. It might interest you to know that in Bauchi, we don’t just allow miners to operate anyhow, it is an exclusive matter. It is the Federal Government that gives licence for mining activities but in Bauchi State what we did as part of the proactive measure was to pass a law that any miner that is given permission to mine in Bauchi State would be registered. But mining operations come with a federal licence, so why the registration?
Bauchi is part of the federation, but the land belongs to Bauchi people. The constitution has given the federal government the power to give mining licence but when you go there, you will meet people there and they have to know why you are there. So, we registered all the miners at the local level and we produced identity cards for them. That is why the mining in Bauchi is not 100 percent refined but is under control. That means if we see any miner without an identity card, it means he is an illegal miner. That is why the mining process is going on smoothly and under control. Immediately we heard the situation in Zamfara, we called them into a meeting and asked them to be careful because if we see any new face aside those that we have on ground, the law of the land will deal with them. Despite your efforts, there are still pocket of banditry among some youths. What is your concern about this menace?
It is well known to us why some of these youths are engaged in banditry. When we came in, we met the issue of Sarasuka on ground. Almost every state has their peculiar challenges with such youths. In Gombe they are called Yan Kalare, in Kano they are called Yan Daba. People should stop politicising security issues. I say to my brother politicians, please don’t ever politicise security. What is your take on the Lame Burra issue?
On the Lame Burra issue, a senator politicised that issue. The governor travelled to China looking for investors, incidentally the following day, Boko Haram took over Lame Burra. Somebody wanted to politicise security but the people are convinced that we are doing our best. This is the same thing with the issue of the Sarasuka that you raised. We are one of the lucky states enjoying relative peace but not without the government spending huge money to achieve this. The Sarasuka is part and parcel of this problem. We used to call them for meetings and we introduced a new security outfit called ‘En-community’. They called them Kato Da Gora in Borno but we call them En-committee because they are part and parcel of the community. They know who sleeps and wake up in the community. If there is a criminal, they know him and the house he came from, better than the police. So we asked them to work hand in hand with the police so that anytime they make arrest they hand over to the police. In that regard, we created a sort of community police.  Won’t that create a rivalry with the police?
Their responsibilities are limited to their own area because we didn’t want to build a monster that will end up consuming us. They are limited to their own communities. You can’t cross from your community to another community, we have the headquarters that controls their activities. We give them some logistics support too and that is why they control them. Unfortunately, some people want to politicise issues. Immediately the after election, they started Sarasuka again but there is a government in existence until May 29. When the governor returned from Abuja, he called state security meeting and still discussed the issue, that he will not be happy to handover a problematic society, that he will deal with the situation before he hands over.
But I was so disappointed recently when I listened to a radio programme and somebody came out lamenting that there was no security in Bauchi State, he said that there was no more Boko Haram in Borno State and that is why Bauchi State is relatively peaceful. That is unfortunate. The government has done something, come and continue where the government stop. That is what they do in other countries, but to say the government has not done anything as far security is concerned, it is unfair. How do you hope to resolve the matter before the incoming government takes over?
We called a meeting of the community heads and the Emir of Bauchi called me personally and observed that the Sarasuka is increasing. I explained to him that in security there is a time lag because this government is preparing to handover and the governor intends to handover a peaceful state. In time lag anything can happen. Will the new regime be happy that we are handing over problem to them? They will not. We are the same Bauchi State and we will not be happy to see that the state is not in peace. The incoming administration will not be happy too. Can you shed more light on the crisis in Dass?
We are yet to get a detailed report from the police but preliminary investigation shows that neighbouring communities are up against each other and the security agencies were victims. The DPO sustained injuries. It was a community problem. In those days we say used to Limi and Goje areas are against one another, so it is similar. The security agencies are on top of the situation and our target is a permanent solution. How is the security of the IDPs?
To be fair to the governor, when we came in we advised him based on security that he should not allow any IDP camp to be established in Bauchi State for obvious reasons. Some might become a breeding ground for criminals. I was once in Sudan as a commander and I know what IDP camps entails. So based on that I advised my governor not to have them in a camp. Not that we don’t have the IDPs but they are assimilated by the society. We are good brothers and sisters. Whenever they bring logistic support the mai-anguwan knows where to get them. They are received, assisted and because of the IDP issue some of our social amenities were over stretched. The other time I represented the governor in a Town Hall meeting in Maiduguri with European Union and USAID, I told them that our hospital, roads, agric equipment and even land were overstretched but because we are good neighbours we agreed to continue to help them because it is not a permanent thing. It is usual, for any election, there emerges a winner and loser, people get into the fray and in such circumstances there would be mudslinging, unwarranted attacks on winners and the usual style of dishing out lies to confuse the electorate and to smear the image of those personalities who… In “Opinions” It is not an unusual occurrence in Nigeria since the First Republic, to have a rancorous and baleful transition between an outgoing administration and an incoming one, especially when the individuals involved belong to different political parties. The tune may however be different if a government is transiting within the… In “News” Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, has reacted to the allegation that his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), rigged last Saturday’s Bauchi South senatorial district by-election. He said the allegation was baseless and unfounded even as he said it was fabricated by enemies of democracy. Abubakar, who was reacting… In “News”