The Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Abuja will today begin the pre-hearing in the petition filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar and his party, challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the February 23 election.  New Telegraph learnt that a pre-hearing notice has already been sent to parties in the petition. A pre-hearing session is meant for the tribunal to meet the parties and also set up modalities to be adopted in the hearing of the main petition.  The hearing notice reads: “The Presidential Election Petitions Panel will begin its inaugural session on Wednesday, 8th of May, 2019 at the Abuja Division court room. Time: 9a.m.”  Four different petitions were listed for hearing today.  They are: 1. CA/A/PEPC/001 – Chief Ambrose Albert Awuru, Hope Democratic Party (HDP) and President Muhammadu Buhari, Independent National Electoral Commission, All Progressive Congress.  2. CA/A/PEPC/002/2019 – Atiku Abubakar, Peoples Democratic Party and INEC, President Muhammadu Buhari, APC.  3. CA/A/PEPC/003/2019 – Coalition for Change (C4C), Chef Chizee Ojinika and Muhammadu Buhari, Yemi Osinbajo, APC, INEC.  4. CA/A/PEPC/004/2019 – Pastor Aminchi Having, Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) and INEC, Muhammadu Buhari, APC. All the petitions are for mention. Out of the 180 days the Electoral Act provided for the petition to be heard, about 50 days have gone, leaving the tribunal with about 130 days to hear and determine the petition.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had, on February 27, declared Buhari as the winner of the February 23 election, having polled a total of 15,191,847 votes to defeat Atiku, who polled a total of 11,262,978 votes.  Not satisfied with the results declared, Atiku and PDP filed a joint petition challenging the result of the election. They premised their petition on the ground that data they obtained from INEC server revealed that they clearly defeated President Buhari with over 1.6 million votes.   The petitioners alleged that INEC had at various stages of the presidential election, unlawfully allocated votes to President Buhari, saying they would adduce oral and documentary evidence to show that result of the election as announced by the electoral body did not represent the lawful valid votes cast.  Atiku alleged that in some states, INEC deducted lawful votes that accrued to him in its bid to ensure that Buhari was returned back to office.  The petitioners also submitted that they would call evidence of statisticians, forensic examiners and finger-print experts at the hearing of the petition to establish that the scores credited to Buhari were not the product of actual votes validly cast at the polling units.  “The petitioners plead and shall rely on electronic video recordings, newspaper reports, photographs and photographic images of several infractions of the electoral process by the respondents,” they added.   More so, in one of the five grounds of the petition, Atiku and the PDP maintained that Buhari was not qualified to run for the office of president, contending that he does not possess the constitutional minimum qualification of a school certificate.  The petitioners serialised results that were recorded from each state of the federation in order to prove that the alleged fraudulent allocation of votes to Buhari and the APC, took place at the polling units as well as ward, local government and state collating centres.  They argued that proper collation and summation of the presidential election results would show that contrary to what INEC declared, Atiku garnered a total of 18,356,732 votes ahead of Buhari, who they said got a total of 16,741,430 votes.  “The petitioners state that Smart Card Readers deployed by the first respondent, in addition to accreditation, equally transmitted electronically the results of voting from polling units directly to the server of the first respondent. “The presiding officers of the first respondent directly inputted the results from the polling units at the end of voting and transmitted directly to the server, in addition to manually taking the Form EC8As to the wards for collation.  “The first respondent is hereby given notice to produce the records of results from each polling unit uploaded and transmitted electronically by officials of the first respondent through smart card readers to the first respondent’s servers.   “The petitioners plead and rely on the first respondent’s Manual Technologies 2019, and notice is hereby given to the first respondent to produce same at the trial. The first respondent’s agents at the polling units used the Smart Card Reader for electronic collation and transmission of results.  “The petitioners plead and shall rely on and play at the trial, the video demonstration by the first respondent of the deployment of Smart Card Reader for authentication of accreditation and for transmission of data. Wherefore, the petitioners pray jointly and severally against the respondents as follows: That it may be determined that the second respondent (Buhari) was not duly elected by a majority of lawful votes cast in the said election and therefore the declaration and return of the second respondent by the first respondent as president of Nigeria is unlawful, undue, null, void and of no effect.  “That it may be determined that the first petitioner (Atiku) was duly and validly elected and ought to be returned as president of Nigeria, having polled the highest number of lawful votes cast at the election to the Office of President of Nigeria held on 23rd February 2019 and having satisfied the constitutional requirements for the said election.  “An order directing the first respondent to issue Certificate of Return to the first petitioner as the duly elected president of Nigeria; that it may be determined that the second respondent was at the time of the election not qualified to contest the said election; that it may be determined that the second respondent submitted to the commission, affidavit containing false information of a fundamental nature in aid of his qualification for the said election.”  In the alternative, the petitioners prayed the tribunal to nullify the February 23 presidential election and order a fresh poll.  In opposing the petition, both Buhari and the APC, filed preliminary objections to challenge the competence of the petitions, even as they challenged Atiku’s locus-standi to even participate in the presidential poll.  In his objection, Buhari described Atiku as a serial loser, boasting that he had always defeated him in every elec  toral contest that both of them took part in. The President insisted that the electorate always chose him ahead of Atiku in both inter-party and intra-party contests, citing the 2014 presidential primaries of the APC, as an instance.  “In particular, at the primary election conducted by the third respondent (APC) in 2014 to pick its presidential candidate for the 2015 elections, the first petitioner and respondent, amongst others, were the candidates; and while the respondent polled 3,430 votes, the first petitioner came a distant third with 954 votes,” Buhari submitted.  The President queried the powers of the tribunal to nullify his election victory at the poll, contending that the joint petition Atiku and the PDP entered against him was incompetent as it was based on conjectures.  Buhari submitted that reliefs the petitioners are seeking from the tribunal were “vague, nebulous and lacking in specificity” and that most of the issues as well as grounds of the petition were not only “mutually exclusive,” but also outside the jurisdiction of the tribunal. He further contended that by virtue of section 31(5) and (6) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), only the Federal High Court or High Court of a state has jurisdiction to adjudicate on some of the issues, among which included the allegation that he was bereft of the requisite educational qualification.  He told the tribunal that contrary to Atiku’s allegation that he submitted false academic qualifications in the Form CF001 he used to secure clearance from INEC, he was at the time of the election, “eminently qualified to contest the election, having not only the minimum qualification of reading up to secondary school level, but rose to the peak of his career as a General in the Nigerian Army with cognate experience and training.”  He added that he has more educational qualification than Atiku. The APC, in its own objection, branded Atiku an alien, alleging that he is not a Nigerian by birth and therefore was not qualified to contest the February 23 presidential poll.  According to APC, Atiku was born on November 25, 1946 in Jada, Adamawa, in Northern Cameroon and is therefore a citizen of Cameroon and not a Nigerian by birth.   The party also told the tribunal that prior to 1919, Cameroon was being administered by Germany, adding that following the defeat of Germany in World War 1, which ended in 1918, Cameroon became part of a League of Nations mandate territory, which consisted of French Cameroon and British Cameroon in 1919.  APC further noted that in 1961, a plebiscite was held in British Cameroon to determine whether the people preferred to stay in Cameroon or align with Nigeria. It stressed that while Northern Cameroon preferred a union with Nigeria, the Southern Cameroon chose alignment with the mother country, saying it was as a result of the plebiscite that Northern Cameroon, which included Adamawa, became part of Nigeria.  The ruling party argued that contrary to Atiku’s claims in his petition, he had no right to be voted for as a candidate in the election to the Office of President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria held on February 23, 2019. It averred that by reason of Atiku’s ineligibility to contest the election, all votes credited to him and the PDP in the election ought to be deemed as wasted votes.  APC also contended that most of the claims contained in Atiku’s petition have become statute barred, arguing that the tribunal was therefore bereft of the jurisdiction to entertain it.  INEC, in its own preliminary objection, submitted that it did not transmit results of the election electronically and that the result exhibited by Atiku in his petition could not have been gotten from its server. 