The Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami SAN yesterday cleared the air on a suit filed by Processes and Industrial Developments Ltd (P&ID) against the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) & Anor before the United States District Court of the District of Columbia (“District Court”), the United States Courts of Appeals for the District of Columbia (“Court of Appeal”) and the Business and Property Courts of the United Kingdom (“Commercial Court”). Malami in a statement issued in Abuja noted that his attention has been drawn to a series of online publications grossly misrepresenting facts of the on-going litigation. However, in his reaction , Malami stated that the dispute that led to the Arbitration arose before the advent of this administration from a 20-year Gas Supply and Processing Agreement (GSPA) entered in 2010 between FGN (through the Ministry of Petroleum Resources) and P & ID in respect of an accelerated gas development project in Nigeria’s OMLs 67 and 123. He added that P&ID never began the construction of the project facility although it alleges it incurred about $40 Million in preliminary expenses. He said: “Arbitral Tribunal on 31stJanuary 2017 rendered its Final Award against the Ministry of Petroleum Resources in the sum of US$6.597 billion together with pre-award interest at the rate of 7% per annum effective from 20thMarch 2013 and post award interest at the same rate till date of payment. “Upon the Award, P & ID commenced recognition and enforcement proceedings of the arbitration award against FGN in March 2018 in both the United Kingdom (“UK”) and the United States of America (the “United States”). In view of the huge arbitration award, the current administration took positive steps in challenging the award, thus, the FGN is duly represented in the proceedings in the United States and the UK by the foreign Law Firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle LLP. “P&ID on the 5th June 2018 in the United States sought to obtain a clerk’s entry of default against FGN which was successfully set aside by the FGN. The proceedings therefore are currently on-going in the United States and the FGN will ensure that its interest and that of the people of Nigeria are vigorously defended. “Meanwhile, as proceedings were ongoing in the United States, P & ID simultaneously commenced recognition and enforcement proceedings of the Arbitral Award against FGN in the UK Commercial Court. The case came up for hearing on 21st May 2019 and has been further adjourned to 14th June 2019 at the instance of the UK Commercial Court due to “Judicial Availability. “It is entirely proper for Nigeria to raise and to strongly assert all available and proper defences to the claims brought by P&ID.