The Chairman of Ukum local government area in Benue State, Mr. Tor-Tyokaa Ibellogo yesterday refuted allegations by his Wukari local government counterpart in Taraba State, Mr. Daniel Adi-Grace, that the Benue state government was behind attacks on Jukun communities in that state. Mr. Ibellogo, who spoke with journalists in Makurdi described the allegation as baseless and a ploy by the Wukari council chairman to twist facts regarding the crisis with the intention to cover-up his involvement. He also accused him of insincerity in efforts towards finding lasting solution to the crisis, adding that the chairman had demonstrated through his actions that he was deeply involved in the attacks on Tiv settlements in Taraba State. He stated that the Wukari chairman invited armed militia who accompanied him to one of the peace meetings between their two councils and laid siege in the bush where they shot sporadically in the air and disrupted the peace parley. The Ukum chairman listed several Tiv Settlements in Taraba State completely razed down by the Jukun militia with the support of the Wukari chairman as Tse-chiina, Hanmetema, Deke Mdondo, Namkpindi and Akanyar. Others he said were Uvondo, Mamupe Ama, Iorshaegh and Ikyaior, among others. The Ukum chairman stated that if Jukun communities came under attacks it was reprisals from those sacked from their ancestral homes in Taraba State and not from Benue State. He expressed disappointment that in spite of concerted peace efforts between the Benue and Taraba State governments, the Jukun militia were still launching attacks on Tiv settlements, and expressed dismay that hundreds of people have been killed while no Tiv settlement has been spared at the moment in Taraba State. Mr. Ibellogo stated that after sacking the Tiv people from their ancestral homes their land is being allocated to Jukuns, saying such was a clear case of ethnic cleansing. He described his colleague’s comments that the Tivs in that state were settlers as a clear display of gross ignorance and mischief as the 1947 census had placed the Tiv in Taraba State as indisputable majority. According to him, the Tiv had a population of over 40, 400 representing 34, percent of the total population of Wukari which he noted is made up of 19 other nationalities with the Jukun representing 17 percent, adding that the past produced various leaders in elective and appointive positions in Wukari local government area as proof that they were indigenes. Mr. Tor-Tyokaa  appealed to the Jukun to  change their attitude towards the Tiv and be willing to embrace them as their brothers and sisters with rights and responsibilities as Taraba State indigenes as is the case with the Jukun in Benue State.