More than words, perception matters in everything. It is, perhaps, on this basis that the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, recused herself as a member of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal, thereby dousing tensions and calming fraying nerves. WALE ELEGBEDE reports   Although Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa is the first female President of the Court of Appeal, she is not, however, not the first female judge that will be mentioned in the neutrality perception in the judiciary based on affiliation.
Notable female judges, who are married to politicians, have had their names dropped on perceived bias posture, especially when their spouses’ political interests are fingered in issues before their courts.
Aside from Bulkachuwa, some other respected ladies of the bench married to politicians include Justice Mary Odili, Justice Binta Nyako, Justice Chioma Nwosu-Iheme, Justice Eberechi Wike and Justice Jumoke Pedro, among others.
For Justice Bulkachuwa, a jurist of no mean repute, an allegation of likelihood of bias was leveled against her by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. Expectedly, all eyes were on her over whether she would recuse herself from the presidential election tribunal or not. But she eventually did.
Atiku and his party are challenging of President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory in the February 23 presidential election. They had in a petition to the tribunal after the inaugural sitting of the panel, asked Justice Bulkachuwa to withdraw as a member of the five-man panel because of what they perceived as a likelihood of serious bias on her part as a result of the reported relationship between some of her family members and the All Progressives Congress (APC) whose victory in the presidential election they are seeking to upturn in court.
In the petition addressed to Bulkachuwa, the petitioners’ lawyers stated specifically that “My Lord, it is no more a secret that your dear husband, Adamu Mohammed Bulkachuwa, contested the February 23, election for the position of a senator in Bauchi North Senatorial District and won same on the platform of the APC.”
It was also alleged that Bulkachuwa’s son, Aliyu Haidar Abubakar, is a card-carrying member of the APC, who not only campaigned for President Buhari’s re-election, but also contested the party’s governorship primaries in Gombe State. Through the activities of these family members, according to the petitioners, the Court of Appeal President has “direct intimacy” with the APC.
Although the five-man panel of the tribunal, in a unanimous ruling dismissed the application, Bulkachuwa said she was withdrawing for “personal reasons.”
Justice Olabisi Ige, who read the lead ruling of the panel, held that the relationship between Justice Bulkachuwa, her husband and son with APC was not weighty enough to infer that she would be biased in her handling of the proceedings of the panel.
But despite the confidence of the panel in her, Justice Bulkachuwa said, “I am recusing myself from the panel for personal reasons.” This was just as she expressed joy that the matter had been settled “based on facts and the law” so that “another female judge will no longer have to face what I have faced.”
Expectedly, the issue elicited reactions and in some ways pumped up political adrenaline. For some, there is no reason for Justice Bulkachuwa to recuse herself from the matter because that amounts to unfair punishment of the respected jurist for the supposed partisan beliefs and affiliations of her family members, especially when no scintilla of proof has been provided to suggest that this also represents her own political position or stance.
For some others, her membership of the panel comes with huge price and the only way she can show non-bias is to withdraw from the case and that sets her mind free.
Another dimension of sexism was also introduced into the argument by those opposed to her quitting the panel. They averred that women, just like in any other tussle, are always at the receiving end. Those who hold this view questioned why Justice Bulkachuwa adding should be called to question on the activities of her husband and not the other way round?
Head or tail of the arguments, the mother of six, responsibly threw in the towel from the panel on moral grounds despite the clean bill of health granted to her by the law. For her, it is better to rise above partisanship and bias that may want to dent her glorious robe on the bench.
Indeed, Justice Bulkachuwa’s sole decision to quit the panel is unprecedented despite the legal guarantee of her position. For once, she has absolved herself of any question that may arise from whatever outcome the panel reached on the presidential election. Moreso, she has shown herself as a woman with dignity, courage and balanced professional. For once, other female justices can take solace in her dignified action.