Policemen attached to ‘Operation Puff Adder’ have shot dead a suspected kidnap kingpin who reportedly masterminded the abduction of the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) Chairman, Mr. Mahmood Abubakar. The suspect, Sumaila Sule, sustained injuries during a shootout with operatives on May 17, on the outskirts of Rijana village. He reportedly died the following from injuries at a medical facility he was rushed to for treatment.
However, before his death, the police were able to extract useful information from Sule, leading to the arrest of four of his gang members.
This is contained in a statement issued by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba. The UBEC chairman, who was abducted alongside his daughter, Yasmin, on the Abuja-Kaduna highway, has since regained freedom. Mba said members of the Special Forces were undertaking routine surveillance and raid operation on suspected criminal hideouts, when they came in contact with Sule’s gang, leading to a shootout.
He said: “A kidnapping kingpin and notorious armed robber, who recently masterminded the kidnap of the UBEC chairman on Abuja-Kaduna Road is dead. The suspect, Sumaila Sule, alias Shaho, male (estimated be in his mid-30s), a native of Rijana village in Kachia Local Government Area of Kaduna State is one of the most vicious and most wanted kidnappers that has been terrorising citizens in Kaduna and its environs. “He died in the early hours of 18th May, 2019 following multiple bullet wounds he sustained during a deadly shootout with police operatives attached to Operation Puff Adder.
“The shootout took place in the evening of 17th May 2019, on the outskirts of Rijana village. The police operatives, in line with the mandate of Operation Puff Adder, were carrying out routine surveillance and raid of suspected criminal hideouts, when they suddenly came under gun fire attack from a heavily armed criminal gang.” Mba also disclosed that three other suspected kidnappers “terrorising” Mubi axis of Adamawa State, were also apprehended in a similar operation.
He added: “In a similar vein, a combined team of Operation Puff Adder operatives, comprising of the IGP Response Team, the Technical Intelligence Unit, the Police Mobile Force and the Special Anti-Robbery Squad have arrested another set of kidnappers who have been terrorising citizens at Mubi axis of Adamawa State. One AK 47 rifle and twenty six (26) rounds of live ammunition were recovered from the gang. “The suspects arrested are Umaru Ibrahim native of Yadi Buni, Yobe State; Abdul Maina native of Maiha Adamawa State and Mohammed Abubakar native of Buni Yadi, Yobe State. The suspects have all confessed to participating in numerous kidnapping and armed robbery operations within Adamawa State, including the kidnap and collection of a ransom of N7 million from Mallam Abdulahi Umoru of Hong Local Government Area. “Investigations into these cases are ongoing, while efforts aimed at arresting other members of the gangs still at large are being intensified.” The Acting Inspector General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, has commended the “gallantry” of the operatives, even as he promised that the “war against crimes and criminality will soon be won”.
To achieve this, Adamu called for “continuous support for the police and other law enforcement agencies”, promising that “the security agencies will not rest on their oars till normalcy is restored in every part of Nigeria”.