The Director of the Center of Male Reproductive Health at RMA of New York, Dr. Natan Bar- Chama, said lifestyle factors and healthy diet might boost male fertility. According to Bar-Chama, who is a board-certied urologist and male infertility specialist, other factors that could negatively affect male fertility are excess body weight, poor levels of exercise, stress and use of tobacco and drugs. “There is a growing body of solid scientific data that correlates obesity, poor nutritional status, lack of exercise, smoking and marijuana usage with decreased semen parameters such as sperm concentration, motility and morphology,” Bar- Chama said. Sperm motility describes the ability of sperm to move properly through the female reproductive tract or through water to reach the egg. Sperm motility can also be thought of as the quality, which is a factor in successful conception; sperm that do not “swim” properly will not reach the egg in order to fertilise it. On its part, sperm morphology refers to the size and shape of individual sperm. It is one of the contributing factor to male fertility. Lifestyle factors may affect sperm parameters, pregnancy and miscarriage rates, but the male infertility specialist said that one of the most concerning issues was alterations in sperm that can be transferred to offspring and affect their development and long-term health. He said: “Sperm DNA from obese or marijuana-exposed animal models and men demonstrate alterations that are transferred to the progeny and can result in increased risk for cancer, effects behaviour, birth defects and overall long-term health repercussions.” “Men need to appreciate that their lifestyle behaviours may not only affect their ability to initiate a healthy pregnancy but, just as importantly, affect the future well-being of their child — something that has clear lifelong repercussions and that should be seriously considered prior to initialling fatherhood,” he added. Previous studies showed that obese men were more likely to experience infertility. Their obesity also appears to put them at increased risk of a nonviable pregnancy. Similarly, maleobesityhurts fertility in a variety of ways. Increased fat in the scrotum could raise testicular temperature, which negatively affects sperm parameters and fertility, explainedPaulaC. Brady, assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center and reproductive endocrinologist at the Columbia University Fertility Center. In addition, he said obesity could also cause several changes to sex hormones and their binding proteins that hurt sperm production.