Four days after the Supreme Court ruling on Zamfara State elections litigation, the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday slammed the Court, staying that there was no justice in the ruling. The APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who gave the reaction of the party said it was wrong for the Supreme Court to give the victory given to a political party by the electorate to another party. According to him, the best the Supreme Court could have done was to ask for the election to be reconducted. He made reference to a British Jurist, Lord Denning and said that there was no human face in the judgment of the Supreme Court. Last week, the Supreme Court finally ruled that the All Progressives Congress (APC) did not hold valid party primaries as required by law. The Court in its ruling held that all the votes scored by the APC in the said elections are wasted votes and declared that the candidates of political parties with the second highest valid votes and the requisite spread should be declared as having been elected. Reacting to the question on how the party felt on the Supreme Court ruling,  Oshiomhole said, “How can you ask me how I feel if the people of Zamfara voted for us in the manner that they did and the court said that those votes were wasted. Meanwhile, at the time those votes were cast a High court had ruled that those candidates were validly nominated. “There is something that I learnt from Lord Denning, a famous British Supreme Court Justice, that the law has to be interpreted taking into account the intention of the lawmakers and try to deliver justice in its purest form. “So, there is no justice when on the ground of technicalities, you imposed on the people of Zamfara state, not just a man or a woman but whole party candidates from Governor to Senate and others that they didn’t elect. “If the court thought we were wrong the Justices would have demanded that we repeat but you can not use technicalities because we are in a democracy, there is nothing democratic when the court imposes strangers to govern a people but we understand that after the Supreme Court we can only go to the Court of God, to that extent we must obey the Court but what we got in Zamfara is a judgement that didn’t translate to justice.” When asked whether the party will sanction APC members who took the party to Court in Zamfara, Oshiomhole, however, declined to comment. The governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Abdul Azizi Yari had issued a statement accepting the Supreme Court ruling and the Independent National Electoral Commission has issued certificates of returns to the candidates of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which came second in the elections.