Residents and traders at Agbowo area of Ibadan, Oyo State, have cried out over what they describe as the strangulating hold of armed robbers on the community. The residents, who are begging that policemen and other law enforcement agents be deployed to the area, have resorted to selfhelp by mounting burglary-proof doors, with traders saying they were most affected by the marauding criminals. According to some of them, most times when they come to start the day’s business, they would discover that thieves have broken into their shops and carted away goods worth thousands of naira.  Business owners who spoke with Saturday Telegraph said they were tired of the incessant attacks, stressing that rather than making money, they were now incurring debts.  The latest attack occurred at a shop, where kiddies, household and exotic items are being sold on Adegbite Street, a short distance from the University of Ibadan The robbers broke into the shop last week and again on Wednesday to cart away more goods, with the owner of the shop said to have broken down in tears over the robbery attacks. A businesswoman, Mrs Ademola, while disclosing efforts made so far towards security, said: “I have called a welder to secure my door. The robbers broke into my shop and carted away my jeans trousers. They stole more than 40 pairs of expensive jeans. The experience almost destroyed my business. We need police to come to our aid.”  Mr. James Adamson, another trader, said: “Breaking into shops in Agbowo is a big problem. In December, one of us got the taste of how deadly these robbers can be. “He had gone to lend money from the micro finance bank to stock his shop, but the robbers attempted to break his iron gate. When they couldn’t succeed, they broke into the shop by breaking down the walls of the shop.  They stole all the goods he just bought. He is yet to recover from that ugly experience.” A lecturer at the University of Ibadan, who wished to remain anonymous, said robbers attacked her at Agbowo when she went to buy some items.  She said: “The time should be at about 6: pm. My son was with me. I drove my Toyota Camry car and parked at a very busy street close to the Fire station at Agbowo Shopping Complex, opposite The Apostolic Church. “I asked them to move, but to my greatest shock, one of them produced a gun and ordered me to hand over my car key. I quickly pushed them off the motorcycle, entered my car and drove off. I thought I had escaped, but they followed me to the front of the University of Ibadan gate.