James Omokwe is an actor, movie director and producer. James fell in love with movies in 1998 and since then has ventured into the world of film making. He’s the producer of the popular drama series on African Magic, ‘Ajoche’. ‘Ajoche’ became a phenomenon that gathered quite a number of viewership. He tells VANESSA OKWARA how it all started, growing up, family and what producing ‘Ajoche’ has done for his career  Briefly introduce yourself. I’m a TV director and producer. I use to be an actor as well. I’m from Arochukwu in Abia State. I’m married and I have a son.   You produced and directed ‘Ajoche’? I produced ‘Ajoche’; I wasn’t the only director. We had other directors like Femi Ogunsanwo, Uduak, Patrick and Sinom George. Once in a while, I will fix some weeks of directing, after that, I’ll hand it over to them.  Why the name, ‘Ajoche’? ‘Ajoche’ means Kingdom; the story is centered on this prophecy about this rightful heir who was going to rule the kingdom. So we decided to call it ‘The Kingdom’; that’s what it means in Idoma. The story is about this entire kingdom, love revenge, action and all that stuff.  For a long while, most of the epics we get to watch are centered on Igbo, Yoruba or Hausa tribe. Why Idoma precisely? Like you said, everything in the industry is predominantly either of the tribes you mentioned but there are so many other tribes in Nigeria and we’ve not really focused on them. So we wanted to do something different. My team and African Magic sat down and decided to shy away from any of these tribes and focus on something new. One of the things we lack in this country is a touch in our history. A lot of people didn’t know that the language spoken in the series was Idoma. A lot of people probably never even heard Idoma spoken before until they heard it on ‘Ajoche’. That’s in Benue State. We just wanted people to be aware of other cultures in the country. Most of the things we focused on in the story are real things. The story itself is not real but it’s centered on real events. So it’s a bit of a history lesson for the viewers.  The series lasted like a year, was it something you planned? Yes, from the get go African Magic commissioned us; we knew it was 260 episodes from the beginning. Planning of the series took about six months and filming took about 11 months. So we knew that it was going to last a year.  Did you get a language expert to teach your cast the Idoma language we heard in the TV drama? Funny story is that the protagonist of the show is called Alichenu; the guy we got as our cultural consultant, his real name is also Alichenu. He was also an actor on the show; his name on the show was called Adoga. He was the cultural consultant. He helped some of the actors with the language and correct pronunciation just to make sure we were doing it accurately. We didn’t get it 100 percent but it was a good 90 percent.  When you were filming ‘Ajoche’, did you ever imagine it was going to get the huge following it garnered from everywhere? To be honest, I knew people where going to love the show but I didn’t think they were going to love it this much! The reason I knew they were going to love it is because it was something different. The scale at which we had done the filming; it has never been done before, so I knew people were going to pay attention. I don’t know how many productions in Nigeria that have built an entire village on four acres of land before. Also the story itself was kind of different, the execution was second to none. Over the past five months, we were literally trending every day, like we trended 98 percent of the time on Twitter. There was a huge fan base! I was following it closely on social media commentaries. It also had a massive cult following. I heard that in Benue State, it had a huge following on daily basis; I got a lot messages from people from Benue State thanking me for the show, people in Abuja also love it a lot. ‘Ajoche’ was virtually everywhere! It became a ‘thing’. I know families who told me this is the first time they all sat down together as a family to watch a show together. So ‘Ajoche’ surpassed my expectations. My mum will call me every day to ask me what’s going to happen on ‘Ajoche’ the next day and I’ll tell her, ‘wait till tomorrow ‘.  In ‘Ajoche’, I noticed that all the guys were well-built with muscles and good looking, and the female fans were practically following the show because of these good looking guys; was that intentional from the producers? Yes, it was intentional from my team and African Magic. If you say a village that had soldiers, then they can’t be looking like teenagers. It was intentional so the ladies can keep drooling all over them. Even when we were calling for auditions, it was a major criteria.  What are the challenges you encountered while filming ‘Ajoche’? We shot at the back of Amen Estate in Lagos State, which is quite far; so half the time we had to pack the entire crew to site. Obviously, we were shooting in a habitat that does not belong to us; so every other week, we’ll see snakes that will pop up. There was a time we caught an alligator. But again we were protected from them because we had a medical team on set, we had anti-snake venom. So in the one year of our filming in that place, nobody got bitten by snake, nobody had any health issues, just the occasional insects and mosquitoes was an issue. I think one of the major issues was flooding. We had planned for those things from the beginning so we were prepared when the rains came. We built that entire village within seven weeks.  How did you get funding for ‘Ajoche’? We were commissioned by African Magic so they covered the cost. It’s their show; they funded the entire series.  And you think they would’ve realised their money? I’m sure they would.  What are you expecting from ‘Ajoche’ after its huge success? ‘Ajoche’ has thrown me and a couple of other people that worked with me in the limelight. I give a big shoot-out to African Magic for giving us this opportunity and trusting us with this kind of huge project. A lot of people have now realised that this can be done in Nigeria. Like how we say it here in Nigeria, ‘it has sold our market’. It has put us on the map and we are hugely grateful.  What’s next for you now after Ajoche? I’ve a couple of projects that I’m working on; let’s keep our fingers crossed, I’m sure you will hear from me very soon.  Mention some other movies you’ve produced before now? I did a film in 2013 called ‘Awakening’. It had OC Ukeje, Kehinde Bankole. I did a couple of films for Ebony Life TV and a couple for African Magic as well.  Have you won awards from the previous ones you’ve done? We were nominated for AMVCA for ‘Awakening’ in 2013. The same film was also nominated for an AMMA award.  So what awards are you expecting for ‘Ajoche’? I don’t know o! But one of the actors, Lota Chukwu won best female actor for ‘Ajoche’ at the last the last AMVCA. Efa was also nominated for something too.  Have you always wanted to be in the film industry? Well, yes, I studied in University of Lagos, I did Theatre. Before then, I was doing Urban and Regional Planning. I stumbled into acting and got interested so I left school, wrote JAMB again for Creative Arts which I did a major in Theatre. I did a short film while in school. When I came out, I started my company, and just started moving from there and here I am today.  Any regrets so far? No! I feel like if I didn’t make this decision, I don’t see myself doing any other thing apart from film, so no regrets at all. It has paid off eventually.  Have you tried acting or you are the type that likes to be behind the camera? In every film I do, I always show my face. I was on ‘Ajoche’ for like two episodes. More like cameo appearances. I’m more of a private person, I don’t want to be on the road and everyone is shouting my name. Besides, I love being behind the camera.  In your opinion, what do you think the Nigerian movie industry need to do to compete with their counterparts in other countries? Price water House says we are a six-billion dollar industry, and in 2022, it’s going to be a nine-billion dollar industry. We are making revenue but how directed is that revenue? How does this money come back into the economy? In Disney World, the amount generated yearly is about 32 billion dollars. They make about eight movies in a year and about five of them usually hit the one billion dollar mark and some of it goes back to the economy in taxes and they are hiring people and making profit.  So they have a full structure that banks and corporate bodies can come in and invest in. But here we don’t have that structure except some companies like African Magic that have an ecosystem that works. They put content on their platform, generate revenue and the money goes back into the system but as a whole, the industry doesn’t have a structure; everybody just wants to make a film and nobody is demanding for the tax receipts. Everybody is doing their solo thing. It’s scattered and does not really go back to the system.  Who does it fall on then, government or the people?  It’s the people. One or two people need to come together and build it and put the money back into the industry. That way it survives and the economy is boosted. Corporations need to come and invest in the industry. But a lot of us are not straightforward. Someone can get 800million to do a film, he firsts uses 100 million to buy a Range Rover car. The money they are supposed to build the industry, they use it for their own personal gratification. I’m passionate about this whole thing and wish for a change soon.  How long have you been married?  I’ve been married for six years and we have a son.  Well, every marriage has its own challenges but we’ve been six years strong. We have a beautiful son; we learn everyday how to appreciate each other. It’s a journey and I’m enjoying it.  How do you relax? I do a lot of video games and watch a lot of movies.  What does fatherhood mean to you? It means responsibility, protection and a lot of love. I could die for my son; I can do anything for him. I love him to death. He’s my only child for now. My wife says I’ve a very soft spot for him. This is because I didn’t have those experiences with my Dad. So I always told myself that whatever I didn’t get as a child, I will give it to my own because I don’t want him to experience what I did while growing up.  What’s your fashion style? I’m a very simple guy! If you leave me, I will always want to wear T-shirt, Ankara trousers and palm slippers or canvas shoes. I hate dressing up; if I’m going for a black tie event and need to wear a suit, yes I would but that’s it for me.     