The Federal Government had taken some steps towards reviving grassroots sports at primary school level across the country. Permanent Secretary, Special Duties, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Engr. Festus Daudu, disclosed this following the recent donations of sports equipment to the Central Pilot Primary School, New Karu in Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. Dauda said the initiative was meant to promote the development of sports at the grassroots in the country. Daudu urged the school’s management to ensure the safety and proper management of the sports equipment in addition to utilizing it for the main purpose it was procured. He also acknowledged the contribution of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission for regulating which group is sponsoring the procurement and distribution of the equipment. Executive Secretary of the National Lottery Trust Fund, Mallam Bello Maigari, noted that President Muhammadu Buhari directed NLTF in 2015 to procure and distribute sporting equipment to public primary schools for the promotion of sporting activities such as Soccer, Athletics, Handball, Judo, Basketball and Taekwondo. He noted that the gesture being extended to the Central Pilot Primary School had earlier been done to public primary schools across the length and breadth of the country. He thus appealed to the school’s authority to secure and maintain the sports equipment as the equipment may be susceptible to theft. “The equipment should be utilized for the purpose for which it was procured” he said.The Esu Karu, Dr. Luka Panya Baba, appreciated the efforts of the Federal Government for the provision of the sports equipment while noting that the intervention programme is creating a future for the people of Karu as it will affect the physical and mental well-being of the pupils in preparation for future leadership roles. He implored the school management to put the sports equipment to good use while calling on them not to abuse the kind ges-ture extended to them because it was free. Head teacher of the school, Mr. Yakubu Nakawo, expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for the provision and distribution of the sports equipment to schools at the grassroots. He equally thanked the National Lottery Trust Fund (NLTF) and the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) for the presentation of the sports equipment to the school.