Veteran filmmaker and TV personality, late Chief Eddy Ugboma, whose death shook the country last week Saturday had an exclusive, yet-to-be published interview with Sunday Telegraph shortly before his demise at the age of 79. Late Eddie holds the record of the only African to have shot 13 films on celluloid. His filmography include The ‘Rise and Fall of Oyenusi’, ‘The Boy is Good’ and ‘Mr. President’ among others. In this interview with ALABA ABIOLA PETERS, the great filmmaker, who’s passionate about reviving the National Theatre, warned against the sale of the National monument and other sundry issues  Information has it that many benefits Nollywood actors are enjoying today are the efforts of you and Ola Balogun; can you shed more light to this claim? We achieved it by uniting ourselves, and then proved it to the government that they need us, we don’t need them. That time, we were saving government millions of dollars, so government had no option than to support us. But today’s actors don’t know their onions. Some of them are so stupid to name themselves new Nollywood so the old Nollywood can go; I pity them. There was a time Nollywood celebrated 20th anniversary and I remembered that ‘Living in Bondage’ was done more than 25years ago. There was no Nollywood as at that time; we were films and video makers. We argued it and we all accepted it since it wasn’t an individual’s company. Nolly means nothing, so they are ‘Nothinghood’. If you get to California, they will show you Hollywood where there are Holly trades; if you go to India, they will show you Bollywood, if you get to Ikeja and ask for Nollywood, where would they show you? Idumota or Trade Fair? So, they have not created that ‘Nollywood’ thing. This Legend of Nollywood Awards is a good idea but where is the Nollywood centre? You pick up the plaque and thereafter they forget about you. The organisers said they’ve awarded over 100 people in the industry; it is a very good contribution but is that what we need now? We need to be properly recognized, that means we need to properly package ourselves. We should be one body, no Igbo, Hausa or Yoruba. You can shoot a film in Yoruba language but don’t let people say Yoruba film, Igbo film or Hausa film. That is why South Africa is cheating us by showing our films on Television, nobody buys Nigerian films again and that is why Nigerian filmmakers are broke. So, who is buying films? They don’t even buy 2000 copies any more. South Africa’s MultiChoice sponsors producers to shoot episode 1 to 6 in Asaba and they put the rubbish on air for people to see. Now, they call themselves art writers.  Another scenario is about those saying they want to sell National Theatre. This is totally wrong! And wrong people have been running the administration of the place. Now, they do politics with the arts. They place their people there to run the place and after the man must have taken more than enough cash, he opts out and the place starts suffering. Since Obasanjo emerged as the President till date, they have been trying to sell the National Theatre. Do we hear other countries selling their cultures? You can sell an open land but you don’t sell National Theatre. And if you give it to one of these men who are stealing government money to run, we will not be able to make use of it again because they will be demanding for the money you can’t afford. Can artistes afford to pay millions before they show their movies? It is unfortunate that we don’t think.  What negative impact do you think will happen to our culture if National Theatre is sold? It kills culture and modern artistes. It is just a case of putting gun on your head and blows it off. This is where they did the National festival and the main center for FESTAC 77. So, you want to kill history? Look at what they did to us with NEPA; they sold it and since then, are you enjoying electricity? They put it on once in a month in my area and they bring mighty bill known as crazy bill and if you don’t pay, they bring ladder to cut off your current. Now, they have introduced a prepaid meter, which means if you don’t buy card, it won’t be active. This country is sick my brother.  According to history, late Hubert Ogunde was the first to start acting in Nigeria; can you shed more light on this? Late Ogunde was a doyen of theatre; I mean on stage. We have been acting before he came in. Ade Love, Ola Balogun, Francis Oladele, Ladi Ladipo, there are many of them who are making films on celluloid. It was later that they brought home videos which anybody can carry his camera and shoot now. You shoot 7pm and release it 8pm. No class again, they don’t care about quality or the storyline. If you watch Nigerian movies, you’ve seen it all from the beginning. People are now watching their Televisions. It is so bad that people are now crazy about ZeeWorld in a country like Nigeria, it is a disgrace. Go to America, London and India, they don’t have any African channel unless some African boys have our CDs to watch and when they come here, they start disturbing their neighbours with ‘Mehn!! Mehn!! Yaw!! Yaw!!’ They claim to be rapping. Rap music is for frustrated people protesting. Rap is not a song from decent people. Frustrated Americans sing rap to protest. Look at lyrics in rap.   What are you currently doing now?  I pity the so called new Nollywood. There is nothing like old or new; Nollywood is Nollywood and as you can see, it is ‘nothinghood’ already. Why are these little boys saying New Nollywood; who trained and made them? Who showed them the way? They are ungrateful and that is why they are crashing. How many of them can do a film now solely for cinemas? Even the cinemas are also doing mistakes, when we had only four of them; people were coming from long distance to watch. That is why I want to start showing films here at the National Theatre. We have about eight halls here; we can use two at the same time. Here is more central than anywhere and we will do a contract with the government. We want to help them to revive this place which will be bombarded with crowd. We start showing     it hour to hour and that is how it should be in Nigeria. When you shoot a movie in Nigeria you should make your money at the National Theatre and every other income is just by the side.  How do you want to achieve this because you can’t compare today’s economy to those years when everything comes with ease? Yoruba says ‘Obe to Dun, Owolopa’, if you produce a good movie, people will come out to watch it anywhere you are showing it. If you talk anyhow, you will see anyhow. Look at AY’s ‘A Trip to Jamaica’; he made N300, 000,000.00 because it was a good comedy flick that got people laughing. People are frustrated but we make them happy. If you shoot good Nigerian epics, some people will watch it four times. Some people who wait at the cinemas for one day to watch and watch that film four times to understand it properly and when they get home to explain it to others, they will say let us go back and see it again. It is all about shooting good films with cash, not the ones you will be begging your colleagues to help you out. Nobody will bring his family to watch that kind of movie.  Can you talk more about your relationship with Ola Balogun? We are colleagues but he has stopped making films over 25 years ago. He went into music which didn’t work out for him. So, I don’t know what he is up to at the moment, but don’t forget that we are old and we are leaving it for the kids. I still try to produce and direct but I can’t last at location. People don’t want to rehearse again. You are supposed to give the script to the actors two months before the shooting so that they will be eating the lines while shooting but today, you find people on set still reading their scripts. They said things have changed.   