 A three-year-old boy, Kehinde Okedairo, died when another building collapsed on Lagos Island on Monday.
Okedairo died after spending about three hours under rubble. The incident occurred at Hassani Lane, Agarawu area of the Island. The boy was sleeping with his mother, when a building, which was already marked for demolition by the Lagos State government, at number 54 Palm Church Street collapsed. Part of the collapsed building fell on the boy and his mother. The three-storey building at Palm Church Street collapsed about 10.40p.m. The mother of the boy survived, but the boy was trapped under the rubble for close to three hours. Immediately the building caved in, youths from the community rushed to the scene and attempted to rescue the boy. Before they finally dug him out, the boy was dead. The Community Development Chairman, Mr. Popoola Oriade, said the distressed house had been marked for demolition for long by the state government. He said: “When we noticed that the building was marked for demolition, we ordered every occupant of the house to move out. We don’t want to witness another calamity. After they had gone, we padlocked the house and prevented people from sleeping there. When we saw the Lagos State Building Control officials, we approached them to come to our rescue. One of them told us that it was not yet time for the demolition of the house. If they had acted on our plea, probably the boy wouldn’t have died.” A resident of the area, Mr. Idowu Gbadamosi, said: “There are many marked buildings, which need to be demolished, which are yet to be touched by the building agency. As I speak with you now, there is a building marked for demolition at No. 28, Agarawu Street, which is a three-storey building posing danger to the residents. “We are dying like chicken on the Island as a result of collapse buildings. Government should not relent in the demolition exercise. I learnt the boy was the only child of his mother. The mother of the boy is presently in the hospital, receiving treatment. The death of the boy had shattered his mother’s plan. The incoming Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, should take the issue of collapsed buildings on the Island with seriousness.” Another resident, Mr. Tijani Ibrahim, urged government to treat developers as criminals. He said: “Many people have lost their lives through the houses built by these developers. Government should arrest and prosecute developers, whose buildings collapse and use them as scapegoats.”
The Lagos State Building Control Agency and policemen from Adeniji Adele Police Station were at the scene of the collapsed building, marking other houses for demolition. Fever of possible eviction has gripped residents of houses near the collapsed three-storey building on Mercy Street, Ita-Faji, Lagos Island. While some of them envisaged that the state government might force them out and demolish their houses, others were already moving out their belongings. One of the apprehensive residents, who… In "Metro and Crime" I reported the building but LASBCA failed to act –Resident   For fear of repeat of last Wednesday’s incident where a four-storey building collapsed on Lagos Island, killing 20 persons including school children, injuring 40, and rendering over 60 others homeless, Lagosians are calling for demolition of old buildings across… In "Sunday Extra" For about four years, two major cases of building collapse have been in court without a likely end to punish the culprits. DAYO AYEYEMI reports   There has been a spike in the number of building collapse in the country with over 20 cases recorded in the last 15 years.… In "Insight"