…says ‘I started urinating blood after nightmares’  Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Special Intelligence Response Team (IRT) must have heard and listened to thousands, if not millions of confessions from suspected criminals, but the confessions of Abba Zamzam (31) take the prize.
The suspect claimed that after stealing and bolting away with his Indian employer’s Toyota Highlander Sport Utility (SUV), the man had been appearing in his dreams to attack him. He later discovered that waking up from one of the nightmares that he was now urinating blood. He alleged that the Indian boss was behind his ordeal.
Zamzam, who appeared glad to have been arrested by the police, said: “Whenever I’m sleeping, my boss would appear in my dream to torment me. When I wake up, I will start convulsing. I have been urinating blood in the last seven days. Please help me to beg him to leave me alone. I have assisted the police to recover his vehicle, but he still keeps tormenting me. He has made my manhood to stop working. I’m begging him to leave me alone because I have returned his vehicle to him.”
The suspect explained that his troubles started after he stole his Indian boss’s SUV and sold it.
Zamzam said he stole Kamal’s SUV out of anger and did not even enjoy the proceeds of the sale. He said that after selling the car, the buyer made half payment and while he was still waiting for the buyer to complete the payment, the man disappeared into thin air.
He decided to take the part payment to Borno State, to his sick mother, who was dying in an Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp. On his way, he and other travellers were attacked by members of the dreaded Boko Haram and all the money taken from him.
Zamzam, a professional driver, was arrested by IRT operatives, who trailed him to Maiduguri, Borno State.
The suspect explained that he stole Kamal’s vehicle because the Indian refused to give him salary advance. Zamzam said he needed the advancement to buy food for his wife, children and to also care for his sick mother, who was in the village in Angala Local Government Area of Borno State.
The driver became angry after Kamal refused his request for salary advance. He said that something told him to run away with the vehicle. He sold the vehicle to a man, Adamu, who he met on Victoria Island, Lagos, for N1.2 million. However, the buyer allegedly paid a part payment of N500,000 and disappeared thereafter.
Police disclosed that Kamal, who was dismayed after his vehicle was stolen, wrote a petition to the IG, pleading for the arrest of his driver who was in possession of his SUV.
A crack team of operatives, drafted from the Lagos Annex Office of IRT, led by Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), Philips Rieninwa, were deployed to Borno State to track down the driver and recover the vehicle.
After weeks of combing every nook and cranny of Maiduguri metropolis, Zamzam was located. He also led operatives to Adamu’s house where the SUV was recovered.
Zamzam, who said that he resided at Agidingbi area of Lagos State, said: “I work with an Indian company that produces cartons at Sagamu area of Ogun State. I got the job last year. My salary is N45,000. My job is to drive the manager of the company from Surulere to the factory in Sagamu.
“Sometime in July 2018, before I left for work, my wife told me that my child had no food. I told her that I had no money. I begged her to look for where to borrow money that when I returned from work, I would repay the debt. She accepted. On my way to work, I got a call from my village that my mother was very sick. They said money was needed to take her to hospital.
“Before now, my mother has been sick. She became hypertensive after two of my brothers were killed by members of the Boko Haram sect. My late brothers left five children behind. I have been the only person fending for mother and my brothers’ children. When I got the call that she was at the point of death, I was worried. When I got to work, I called my boss and told him what was happening to me. I told him that I needed money to feed my wife and my children. I needed money to send to my sick mother and buy foodstuffs for my wife. I told him to give me the money out of my salary because I had worked for 24 days in that month.”
Zamzam said that instead of Kamal to listen and show sympathy and kindness, the Indian threatened to sack him.
“He refused and threatened to sack me for asking for my salary before the end of the month. I begged him to help me and he insisted on sacking me. I took the car and I went to a beer parlour; I had never taken alcohol, but because of what he told me, I went and bought a bottle of beer. I went to Victoria Island and sold the car for N1.2 million. The buyer gave me part payment and later ran away with the vehicle. I took the money quickly to my village, but on our way, Boko Haram attacked us and made away with the money.”