For allegedly allowing illegal inflow of foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same, the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the African Action Congress (AAC) has suspended its presidential candidate in the February 23 election, Omoyele Sowore. Also suspended were Deputy National Chairman (South West), Ogunlana Jacob; National Treasurer, Elam Rex lnalegu; National Youth Leader, Buhari Olanrewaju among others. But Sowore, who equally doubled as National Chairman, said the suspension was financially induced. He also said the leader of the group, Leonard Nzenwa has been expelled while others who participated in the meeting have been suspended pending outcome of investigation. The AAC NEC, which met in Abuja yesterday, appointed Nzenwa as acting National Chairman. A communiqué issued at the end of the meeting and read by Mazi Okwe, accused Sowore and nine others of contravening Article 52(k) of the constitution of the party. The communiqué further accused the suspended members of “failure to hold, convene or summon the statutory quarterly meeting of the NEC; allowing illegal in-flow of foreign funds into the party and personally retaining same in contravention of Section 225 (3) (4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), financial misappropriation of the party’s funds, abuse of the party Constitution and other act inimical to the political interest of the party.” It resolved to refer allegations of anti-party activities and removal from office of the suspended national chairman to the National Convention which is the highest organ of the party, to decide his fate in line with its constitution. Nzenwa, according to the communiqué, would continue to act as National Chairman of the party pending the election of a substantive National Chairman. Sowore’s suspension, which began on March 27, will last for six months. The suspended National Chairman, who reacted immediately, said those who suspended him have demonstrated that they have no share in the core values of the party. Sowore’s statement read: “It has come to the notice of the office of the Chairman of the African Action Congress that a group of suspended members, induced by financial reasons and antiprogressive politics, gathered in Abuja today, 13th May, 2019, and purportedly held a NEC meeting.