Lionel Messi is on the spotlight as the Argentine genius spearheads Barcelona’s quest for the Copa del Rey against Valencia this evening at the Estadio Benito Villamarin, Seville.  The legendary Barca talisman came under barrage of criticisms for his inability to show his magic in the Catalans’ dumbfounding 4-0 defeat to Liverpool which saw them crash out in an astonishing fashion having won the first leg 3-0 at the Camp Nou, often regarded as slaughter ground of the Blaugrana.  While there is no denying the fact that despite retaining the La Liga crown, the season, standardwise, has been disappointing for Ernesto Velverde’s team as they are keen on clinching the prestigious Champions League trophy especially with eternal rivals Real Madrid crashing out in the first knockout stage. With biggest rival in the game Cristiano Ronaldo already headed for new challenges in Italy, Messi unsurprisingly lords over the Last Liga where he ended up as the top scorer with 34 goals, the highest among the top five A-tier European leagues.  With Liverpool and Tottenham scheduled to battle for the Champions League in exactly a week’s time at the Wanda Metropolitano homeground of Atletico Madrid, and with the fact that there has been no outstanding performer in the two English clubs, Messi, who was named the La Liga player of the season, could claim for a record six time World Footballer of the Year honour should he, as he has often in the past, turn in the style against Valencia, a side who by clinching a Champions League spot has achieved their target for the season. Barcelona have dominated this competition with 30 title wins and they’re probably favourites here but there’s been a sense of depression since their Champions League semifinal defeat to Liverpool.  They’re in the same situation as they were last year when, daft though it sounds, many think that a domestic double might not be enough. For a club of Barcelona’s status, it was all about Europe this year and the figure behind the dream has to be the skipper who himself said it publicly at the beginning of the season. At the same time, not getting a domestic double might well be enough for many to write this season off as a disaster even after winning with an 11 point gap over second placed Atletico and 19 over Real.  Messi, who has netted 49 times making his the joint-second scorer in this tournament, was the prime fall guy of the Champions League ouster as he apart from being left by the club as they headed to the airport, was assaulted, albeit non-physical by enraged supporters but he could smell roses again to the fans with a breath-taking display on Saturday. With the Copa America coming just weeks away and the European Nations League semifinals where Ronaldo will lead Portugal’s charge also around the corner, Messi’s hunger for success should be glaring in this match especially as his never-ending comparison and rivalry with Ronaldo rages on.