Maryam Tamraruwa-Dass (meaning the Star of Dass Emirate) was the candidate of the Green party of Nigeria (GPN) during the last State House of Assembly election in Bauchi State. In this interview with ALI GARBA, she talks of her challenges as a female contestant, religious role in it and her preparation to raise young female politicians before 2023. Excerpt  What really happened to your ambition at the state assembly level?
I was the only female contestant among two men in our party during the Primaries. It was very challenging for me; secondly I came from minority tribe. Religion, gender also played roles in the primaries against me. I face many challenges; in fact, the other candidate that I contested with was my party Chairman. Up to the time that we did the primaries, he was the one that nominated all the delegates since he is new party. It was like if I have a friend, I will just ask him to be a delegate and that was how he picked up delegates up to the day that we did our primaries.
Even my form, I was confused whom I will take it to sign for me because he was the Chairman and I am contesting with him, that was one of the challenges I faced. Still, I thank God that out of 52 delegates; I got 32 while he got just nine. I am impressed with the turn out of the delegates, I was not expecting to get the ticket but I don’t know why they turn out to vote for me as their candidate. Based on my investigation, they used what I did to them, they know who I am, they know what I can do for them, I think that was the reason they decided to vote me. Based on your experience, would you still encourage women, especially young ones to join politics?
That is my target. Between now and 2023 I have a project that I want to involve young women that would participate in politics. I want to create some awareness among females in secondary schools and higher institutions to encourage them to participate in politics. How possible?
Like each of the local government, I want to get like 10 young women who will actively participate in politics. In my local government, I want to have more than that to participate even in councillorship, I will try and encourage them. I will encourage them with finances, educate them and tell them the positive part of it. In this part of the country-northern part, religion used to play a role in our politics. I will tell them the good part of it and let them know the consequences they will likely face but I will try and do something for our community. On what platform or NGO do you intend to project that plan?
Women Monitoring Group (WMG), is the name of the NGO, I intend to use. That monitoring group is not only in politics but we want to monitor political parties how they would involve women aspirants, in each of the political party, we want to monitor their involvement and participation in each of the local government in Bauchi and Nigeria but I will start with my state.
The crisis in Zamfara where women and children are suffering appears unimaginably…….
I feel very bad. It was touching because I was opportune to meet with one of the female candidates that contested in Zamfara State. We were in Lagos last week for a training LEAD Program sponsored by EU. I advised her to leave that state and move to another state. She said she cannot move anywhere because her family, her parents and everything they have is there and that some of the problems is from their leaders like Political leaders, community leaders, and so on, it is not as if somebody come from another state and influence the crisis, it is from their state. So I was touched, I was empathetic about the issue she was telling me. She said the bandits will go to a village and they will pick up like 10 women, beatiful girls and go with them into the bush to take advantage of them and after they finish with the women they would release them. It is so pathetic really. What do you suggest to be done to stop the crisis?
As a woman, I think what should be done is to involve more women in political seats at the National Assembly and all Federal appointments-state appointment and local government. I am not saying that men are not trying but whatever a woman can do for her children, I think she will do it for her own people because women have that heart of sympathy, empathy and they are ready to go to any length for their people. You find out that most of the journalists, who come out to talking about the Zamfara crisis, are women because the crisis is touching mostly to them. What I will tell the government is that they should help us as mothers, they should do something about it, and they should please do something about as a matter of urgency. Do you have any regret for joining politics?
No. I am not regretting anything. I have contested out of 13 candidates in my local government during the state Assembly election, even though four aligned with the ruling party we were nine that contested at last and I came third after APC, PDP I was third and I know what I have done. I don’t have anybody that sponsored me, APC have power of government, they have influence of the Governor and other people. PDP have somebody like Speaker House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, they have Senator Bala Kauran Bauchi that are supporting their candidates but me as person I don’t have anybody but I came third so I know I have tried my best. I know if not because of some influence of party or some negligence I know the crowd that I have pulled in my local government. So, I am not regretting anything and I will still come out with full force 2023. I have that intention.