Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, yesterday said he had engaged top security formations in the state to begin general statewide crackdown on criminals beginning from today. The security networks include personnel from the military, the police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), who would help fish out criminals from their hiding places to confront sanctions. The objective of the enforcement, the governor said, would be to restore peace and normal economic and other activities to troubled Sankera, Gboko, Kwande and other communities across the state, where innocent people had been killed by militants.
The state had not known peace in recent weeks, following rampant attacks by the Jukun, Fulani and local militants. Governor Ortom gave the indication at a thanksgiving mass in his honour organised by the Nongov Community Development Association (NCDA) from Guma Local Government Area of the state. He said with the end of the one week prayer and fasting programme organised in conjunction with the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) against evil in the state, it was time to match faith with works, stressing that the former without the latter, was dead.
Governor Ortom said God had heard the prayers of the people at several previous times such that he was confident that He had heard the prayers this time too and would assist in the fight against crime. He said having tackled the challenge from the spiritual realm; it was time to go physical, insisting that with the combined efforts of the security agencies, criminals would be fished out from their hiding places to face sanctions. He urged the people to reconcile with one another pointing out that the time for politicking was over even as he reiterated his call on others who contested elections with him to team up for the development of the state. The governor commended the Nongov community for turning out in large numbers to vote for his re-election and assured them that he was ready to prove at the election tribunal that the votes he got were genuine.
In his sermon, Reverend Thomas Chieve, enjoined Christians to imbibe thanksgiving, which he said was pleasing to God.