Mr. Toyin Ayinde is the First Vice President, Nigerian Institute of Town Planners (NITP) and a former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development in Lagos State. In this interview with DAYO AYEYEMI, he speaks on recent International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s comment on Nigeria’s economy and affordable housing, among others. Excerpts:  Are you not worried about what IMF said recently about Nigeria’s economy, especially in the area of slow growth? For me, I have learnt not to rely on a body like IMF because they are not Nigerians. Also, it has the tendency of comparing us to other countries that have infrastructure that we do not have; that have culture different from ours; that have ethnic divisions not as many as ours. So, I think it is not wise to use IMF’s parameters to judge us. I agree that we should study what IMF report says and try to bring out principles, because life itself is governed by principles. We should bring out principles that will help us to make advancement and not to use the blanket guidelines of IMF. That will be my take. I always say that IMF cannot love this country more than us; therefore we should love our country for our sake. We have to ensure that Nigeria project succeeds.  The entire world listens to IMF and you say we should not take its parameters serious? If you observe very well, not the whole world listens to IMF. Did China listen to them? If we study history, we will know that some countries just decided to take their destiny in their hands, and that is why I said we can look at the principles because life itself is about principle. We have principle of economics, sociology and leadership, among others. We must find our own ways of solving our own problems. You have people talking about home grown democracy, ordinarily if you define democracy – government of the people for the people and by the people. The way democracy is practiced in the United States (US) is different from the way it is practiced in the United Kingdom (UK). So we should not come to practice it same way here. By and large, I think we should try to solve our own problem.  Are you in support of IMF’s recommendation that Nigeria’s government should remove fuel subsidy? If I speak as an outsider and someone not in government, I would say that we do not even know whether there is subsidy or not. But of course, there is subsidy and fuel is selling at N145.00 per litre. You know how much trouble we were when it was jerked to N145.00. You know how our inflation rate went up. Although, media reports tell us that rate is lowering, I still buy fuel at the same rate; I still have to fuel my generator; I still have to buy yam at the same rate; my rents are not changing and my tenant is not paying. This is what subsidy removal means to the ordinary man. So when subsidy is removed, I am sure price per litre will go up. Transporters are not going to accept it, they will increase their fares. If a trader got transport for a higher rate, he is going to make up for it somewhere. The question is, can we afford the aftermath of subsidy removal now? It may be beneficial on the long run to remove subsidy, but what are the cushioning effects in place? I know that a country that has not benefited enough of good leadership is bound to be skeptical. If we go back, what we used to hear is that when subsidy is removed from petrol, the gains will be spent on building infrastructure. Our roads don’t give us joy. I was on my way to Ota in Ogun State recently, I knew how healthy I was when I went, and I knew that when I came back, I had headache. If we remove subsidy now, costs of items are going to increase, and if incomes are not increasing, how do we fill the gap? As an ordinary man, I would say we are not ready for it yet.  Is Nigeria making progress in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index as projected, considering obstacles in the process of business and property registrations? I think we are number 147 in the rankings. We are making gradual progress, but challenges we have in the area of ease of doing business are mostly attitudinal. One of the things that concerns people like us is construction permit. Right now, we are not processing any. I have heard tales of woe from people about this. We won’t say it is about technology, I doubt it. These are human errors, which if we are serious we can correct them. I am sure we can do better than where we are presently if we put in more efforts.  People have cited congestion at the ports and roads as some of the obstacles. Do you foresee solution to these? This could be dealt with at the federal level. Number one is that Apapa port is not the only port Nigeria has. What is stopping Nigeria from making use of other ports? What happens to Calabar, Port Harcourt and Warri ports? However, the use of these ports will require a built up infrastructure comprising road and rail systems. So, right now, I think we should give some credit to government because we could see that they are trying to develop the rail system, not only for the Lagos-North axis, but the eastern rail. I am hoping that all of these are to help build infrastructure. The transport system is supposed to be intermodal so that when you come from the port, it stops somewhere from when you arrive at the port to your destination, and another system of transportation takes off. Our road system does not have the capacity for the volume of traffic and that is why I think the rail is going to help us a lot. We must not forget where we are coming from. We came from years of bad road development, years where sufficient allocation had not been made for capital expenditure, years where we have to do recurrent expenditure most of the time. So government is just trying to rebuild infrastructure and during the construction period, you experience pains and tension. When we begin to sort these things out gradually, then we will begin to have some ease.  What would you say about government’s efforts to sort out the issue of affordable housing for Nigerians? We cannot expect the solution from the present government because it is a solution that has to grow over the years. So one, two, three governments would not solve it. If our statistics are right, we still have about 17 million deficit of houses. It has been 17 million since 2010 and our population is increasing. We have not built houses at the rate of one million per year, not in Nigeria. I think the solution will require an overhauling. For example, our economy needs to be overhauled. We need to contend with the housing problem. Why do I say so? Most of our materials are imported and right now, we do not have a housing industry. We need to develop a housing industry.  How?  Can you point to an industry where at any time you can get standardised doors? So when we have an industry that is producing only doors, another one keys, another one specializes in windows and lift, then we are ready to build housing industry. Take for instance, a nation that has automobile industry: Toyota does not manufacture a trafficator, there is an industry that does that. There is an industry that manufacture engine blocks and that is what it does. So we must develop our housing system to the level that we would have standardised our doors and windows so that you can even go to a builder’s mart and buy your windows there or order window online because we already have the industry there. Also our method of construction is slow. Until we evoke a system of construction that gives us faster homes, that will give us more homes. We also have to deal with how we live. Right now, we live individually. If you ask an average Nigerian whether he has a house, whether he wants a house, the first thing he would say is that ‘I don’t have land yet, and if I don’t have land, how do I build?’. The question is, do they need a house or land? In countries that have made appreciable progress in the housing sector, they dealt with the issue of accommodation, not the land. In Singapore that does not have land like Lagos for example, it built vertically, 40 floors, 50 floors of residential housing units. So when I live in 50 floors, why would I ask for land? Many Nigerians do not understand it like that. So these are the things we have to discuss whether it is the land or accommodation we need. We need to get the private sector and banks involved. If we cannot access funds at reasonable rates, why would you think they would invest in housing? So there is a  lot to do. We don’t need to wait till eternity to solve our housing deficit.  If you were the minister of housing, what would you do?  The first is to work toward standardizing housing components. When we standardize them, we are likely to develop industry for them. That is one. The number two is to look at the way we build. The way we build is too slow and we cannot build much. We also need to look at housing based on what you need and not on how big you are. You know there are bachelors today who lived in three-bedroom flat because they can afford it. And there are six-member families who live in one room because they cannot afford bigger accomodation. They are living under congestion, and when you congest the facilities, you will break down the facilities. So these are things that we look at. They are not issues of a one-year solution. They are issues where you have to research and find out what is happening. Why would a bachelor acquire a three bedroom apartment and he is not making use of two rooms? We have to build according to needs. There are lots of people today who have money to build houses and just decide that they want to build blocks of flats. Who is asking if there are people who need those flats? You may just need studio apartments. So there is a lot of research works that anybody who is minister for housing must do. A lot of research works as to the type of housing you need and how we standardise the components such that industry is built. With standardised doors alone, we can get many carpenters employed. All you need is to give them the standards.  Another challenge is the issues of mortgage. What is your take? It is mortgage that will make us achieve affordability. If we cannot answer the question of mortgage, then we can’t answer the question of affordability. First, in other climes, you hardly build your own house by yourself. It is built and you move in, then you pay by installment. Mortgage too relies on steady income, which means people must be gainfully employed. That is why I said that to answer our housing problems; we have to embark on overhauling of many things. If someone is not gainfully employed, how does he service his mortgage? So there is a lot we need to do.  What is your take on the recent incidents of building collapse? I have an interesting write-up on building collapse in my book that is coming up. It is a chapter – Building control or people control. Construction is a specialised field, people are trained for it and in the construction sector in Nigeria, seven professionals in the building industry are recognised. Those are the professions that supposed to take charge of construction, but over the years, construction became everyone’s stuff. It all started in the early 70s when we had oil boom and there were a lot of contractors. They used to call them ‘emergency contractors’ then. It is like when somebody owns a bookshop and gets a contract to construct a drain. So construction became all-comer affairs. The truth about Lagos Island is that it is experiencing collapse because the location is in marshy environment. It actually required technical input in building up foundations. But we have seen that those buildings were built by developers who needed to bring in their own funds, use the buildings over time and handed over to the families. You see that in all that I have mentioned, I mentioned man. The sad thing I observed is that professionals have not collectively come together to solve the problem.  How do you mean? I have heard each profession saying something about it. If you go to the records, each profession is speaking from the angle of self, saying if you involve our profession, there would be no collapse or collapses had been happening because we have not been involved.  