Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday said that he was working towards technologically-driven civil service for the state that will meet the dictates of the 21st Century global society.
Obaseki disclosed this yesterday while receiving the 2018 Annual Report of the Edo State Civil Service Commission at the Government House in Benin, the state capital.  This was as he expressed belief that if the state or country needed to move to the next level, the civil/public service should work towards meeting the demands of the people. Obaseki said he was working to ensure that civil servants acquire regular capacity building and trainings on modern work processes in order to make them more efficient in the discharge of their duties. “There is need for transition from manual record keeping to electronic processes to conform to global standards, and we are working with foreign partners to provide world class facilities at the training centre being constructed in the state,” he said.
The governor, therefore, tasked the state Civil Service Commission on the need for effective staff distribution as well as to take a holistic review of the services and activities of civil servants.  Obaseki, who assured the Civil Service Commission of his administration’s continued support, added that the ongoing Treasury House, Blocks C and D of the state Secretariat project, as well as power supply to the secretariat buildings would be completed before the end of year.  Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Commission, Princess Ekiuwa Inneh, said there were 3,217 civil servants in the state as at December 31, last year, saying the figure comprises 679 junior staff; 2,177 senior staff; 336 management and 25 consolidated staff. According to her, the state civil service had depleted due to the change in the policy of retirement status of civil servants in the state. While calling for recruitment of additional workers, the Chairman commended the state government over the ongoing reforms in the state’s civil service, particularly the renovation of the secretariat and the High Court buildings.