The presidency yesterday organised a valedictory session for members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) signaling a gradual end of the cabinet under the first term of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Anule Emmanuel reports that it was a moment of expression of gratitude, tributes and farewell   President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, held the last meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) with members of his cabinet in the current dispensation of the first four years of his government. The meeting, which held inside the Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, was also a valedictory session organised ahead of his May 29 inauguration for a second term in office. The event provided a platform for the out-going members of the cabinet to express gratitude to the President and Nigerians for the opportunity to serve the country in various capacities. Inside the Council Chambers, it was an atmosphere of excitement and fulfillment as the ministers gathered in clusters, exchanging pleasantries ahead of President Buhari’s arrival. While the ministers started to arrive at the venue as early as 10:45 am, the President showed up at precisely 11:00 am, the usual time for the commencement of the council meeting.On arrival, President Buhari invited council members including Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; his Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari; Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HoSF), Mrs. Winifred E. Oyo-Ita and the National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Munguno for the national anthem. With the anthem over, Buhari invited the Minister of Niger Delta, Usani Uguru Usani and the Minister of Environment Suleiman Hassan to offer the Christian and Muslim prayers. With the stage set for the meeting, the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, asked members of the press to take their leave to allow the cabinet deliberate on other issues of national importance in a closed door session before the valedictory proper. As the media remained on standby to return into the council chambers later, expectations became rife that President Buhari was likely to dissolve the cabinet and allow for Permanent Secretaries in the respective ministries to hold forth till the next government takes full shape. The closed-door meeting lasted for about an hour and half before an invitation was again extended to reporters to witness the valedictory session. All ministers were after that allowed three minutes each to make comments. The Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, was the first to open the floor. He thanked President Buhari for finding him worthy to serve Nigeria as minister of the Federal Republic. According to Malami, the nearly four-year period of serving under the leadership of the President exposed him to the dynamics of leadership. As far as the AGF was concerned, the kind of leadership provided by President Buhari was one that values integrity, a necessary attribute needed for national cohesion and development. “It was indeed an opportunity that exposes me to the dynamics of leadership, a leadership that values integrity and exposes to my conscience what integrity can do in building universal confidence in a leader. Leadership that makes service that bothers on integrity as a singular attribute of national development,” Malami said. Chief Audu Ogbe, the Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources, who took his turn after the Justice minister, appreciated the President for selecting himself and other cabinet members. Ogbe, who also extended appreciation to members of the Senate for their confirmation, recalled how challenging it was when the government first came into power. Specifically, the Agriculture minister said: “When we came in, we quickly ran into very strong headwinds. One of them was your challenge of ill health, part of which God delivered us in you. The others the two helicopter crashes of the Vice President, again, the hand of God was there to deliver him. Then we lost a colleague of ours, James Ocholi, his wife and son in an accident, it was quite traumatic. Then we en-tered recession, but your strong leadership saw us through all of these trials.” Another striking issue raised by Chief Ogbe was the fact that President Buhari has through the four years, given his cabinet members total freedom to initiate and take decisions regarding areas of their mandate. “In my whole life in politics, I haven’t seen someone with the strength, which you have in withstanding some of the most vicious and outrageous assaults hauled on your person and the way you stood up and carried on.” The minister of State for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Heineken Lokpobiri, admitted that what he learned in the four years of the administration is not comparable to his knowledge garnered throughout his political life. “Your leadership style is exemplary; it was God ordained. I have always told people that you came at a time that God wanted you to come. I always tell people that what saved this country is because of your integrity and because of the way the world sees you as a man of one can trust.” Lokpobiri advised President Buhari that “as president of Nigeria, you are president of the black world and so, you have enormous responsibility. So, you need all the time to attend to other matters apart from the FEC proceedings. It is my very good submission that in the next level, let the office of the SGF develop standing orders that will regulate proceedings of the council. “That will save a lot of time that the President needs to attend to other matters. That will prevent some of my colleagues here, who will talk four, five times on one single matter. You are only allowed to talk one and will be allowed to talk twice if you are the one presenting the memo.” Of interest during the valedictory session was the comment from the Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu, who raised concerns about the poor contribution of Information Communication Technology to the country’s national development. He advised that going forward into the next level of the government, the administration must pay more attention to the utilization of ICT. Shittu explained that although Buhari was criticised for delays in the appointment of ministers, the capacity and delivery abilities of the ministers have paid off. While commending President Buhari for achievements recorded in the security sector, the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, said that the Buhari- led government took over at a time when the military was ill-equipped with the moral of men and officers dampened. He acknowledged that although significant progress has been made in the security sector, Nigeria is still facing security challenges, particularly in the north eastern part of the country. Virtually every minister, who spoke during the valedictory session, commented on unique attributes, the President has. These include integrity, love, and commitment to Nigeria’s growth and development, passion for the poor, patience and humility. Other attributes identified of the President are that he is unblemished, a man of character and charisma. In his remarks, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, said the period of the four years afforded him the opportunity as a former journalist, who was very critical of the government to serve as a minister. He noted that as a man of integrity, President Buhari throughout the period while he (Adamu) served a Minister of Education, did not ask him for a contract or favour as other leaders would do. Adamu who said “Buhari is a man of integrity and is a true man of God,” urged the President to increase funding for the education sector. According to him, what the sector needs is about N1.4 trillion of funding, but has received allocation well under N1 trillion. For the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello, serving under the current administration led by President Buhari, was a lifetime opportunity because he never dreamt of attaining that height. The Minister of Health, Isaac Adewole, told President Buhari how his ministry had used his name internationally to open doors for national development. According to the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, it is a huge privilege for anyone to serve his or her country. He jocularly recalled the only favour, which the President asked of him in the last four years. It was for the minister to represent him in an event in Lagos. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who also took turn to thank the President for the opportunity to serve the country, recalled that he first met President Buhari in 2011. It was exciting listening to Amaechi, who joked about insinuations that Buhari was planning to Islamize Nigeria. “Let me thank you for not converting me to Islam,” Amaechi said, recalling that when he entered Christ the King Catholic Church, where he worships in Rivers State at some point, he was chased out for supporting a man, who wants to Islamize Nigeria. Other speakers, who made statements that generated interest at the event were the Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Abubakar. She thanked God for seeing the cabinet members thus far. She, however, reminded the President on the need to give women 50 per cent appointment in the next administration. When Vice President Osinbajo took the stage to speak, he commended the President for providing a free space for all cabinet members to work during the four years. Osinbajo said he was grateful for the two times President Buhari allowed him to serve as acting President. According to the Vice President, while on a foreign trip for medical vacation, Buhari had assured him that he would not reverse any decision he took during the period. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, went comical when it was his turn to speak. He thanked the President and the Vice President, pointing out that having being chief executive of a state, he realized upon his appointment as a minister that the Federal Executive Council was a different political school of its own. He stressed how the President throughout the four years never interfered in the jobs of the ministers. Ngige said with the support of President Buhari, the Ministry of Labour and Employment under him recorded 34 conciliations and mediation of labour unions and government. He listed the N30,000 minimum wage approval by the President for workers as a good gesture. The Labour minister appreciated President Buhari for appointing a member of group – ‘Association of Short Men of Nigeria’ – into the cabinet. He said the Vice President is their chairman, while Adams Oshiomhole, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is the deputy. The minister also mentioned Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State as another member of the group with himself being the provost. Minister of State for Petroleum, Ibe Kachikwu, in his remarks, thanked the President for the opportunity, which he said, came without his having to know him. According to him, one great lesson he will be taking away from the cabinet is audacity and integrity, which he has learned directly from the President. Kachukwu disclosed that he is excited that the country, during the period of the four years, has been able to stop pipeline vandalism in the oil-producing Niger Delta region.