Alhaji Shuaibu Ado Dansudu is the National President of Arewa United Consultative Forum (AUCF) and All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain. In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on the recent general election and early race for the 2023 presidency, among other issues   How would you assess the conduct of the last general elections?
The outcome of the elections was commendable and acceptable in some areas, while some people also condemned it in some places, especially in states where governorship elections were declared inconclusive. For me, I think the election was too cumbersome. They should separate the National Assembly elections from the presidential election and also separate the House of Assembly elections from the governorship elections. The various elections should be held on different days. Doing that will enable the electorate to vote for candidates of their choice because what I noticed in the last elections was that majority of the people, who won the National Assembly elections did so because of President Muhammadu Buhari and not based on their popularity and acceptability.
I believe Nigeria needs a two party system like many developed countries that have two major political parties. I am not happy with the situation where we have 91 political parties. During the last general elections, it was difficult for many people to identify the party they wanted to vote for because there were many political parties on the ballot paper. The reason we had lots of rejected votes in the last elections was because there were too many parties and many found it difficult to identify their preferred candidates on the ballot papers.
This is the first time we are having about 71 parties contesting in our general elections. I will advise us to go back to the two-party system, which we practiced in the aborted Third Republic. June 12, 1993 presidential election is regarded as the freest and fairest election in Nigeria because we had only two political parties then – Social Democratic Party (SDP) and National Republican Convention (NRC). It is about one month to the inauguration of President Buhari for a second term in office and it is surprising that people have started talking about 2023 presidency. What is your take on that?
It is the turn of the North in 2023 to produce the president, may be, by 2027, the presidency will come back to the South. The reason why the North should be allowed to produce president in 2023 is because of what former President Goodluck Jonathan did. Because of his interest and that of his followers, they turned things upside sown. Jonathan should have handed over after he completed late President Umaru Yar’Adua’s tenure and allow a northerner to take over from him. So, I don’t believe power should return to the South in 2023 because Chief Olusegun Obasanjo was president for eight years and Jonathan was president for almost six years; making a total of 14 years.
Even if Buhari rules for eight years, with Yar’Adua’s two years, that is 10 years. It still remains four years for the North to meet up with the South. So, the South should not think about ruling in 2023; it is our turn and when we finish our turn, the presidency can come to the South. The South ruled for 14 years and we, the North, must also rule for 14 years if we want to do justice between ourselves. Are you saying that the South should forget the 2023 presidency?
They should forget the 2023 presidency. We should all understand that South-West, South-East and South-South make up the South, while North-West, North Central and North-East make up the North. So, the rotation of the presidency should between the North and South. Let justice be done; let it be 50-50 according to arrangement and agreement. There is no way the North can do what Jonathan did in 2011 by contesting the presidency. He destroyed the arrangement.
When we wanted to give the presidency to the South in 1999, we didn’t support anybody from the North to contest against the South. Nobody come from the North to contest the 1999 presidential election. That is justice for you. The second time Obasanjo contested, though Buhari contested against him, the North did not support Buhari then. Why did South support Jonathan in 2011? They were the ones who instigated or pushed Jonathan. So, we are going to get our mandate in 2023. What is your take on the jostle for the leadership of the National Assembly among lawmakers elected on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) despite the Senator Ahmed Ahmed Lawan and Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila’s purported endorsement by President Buhari and the party as Senate president and Speaker, House of Representatives, respectively?
My advice is that members of the National Assembly should do what will favour the country and should elect those who know the problems of Nigeria. The truth is that people are suffering due to unemployment and poverty in the land. So, they should elect those who will favour the masses and the country. The new minimum wage, which was approved by the National Assembly and signed into law by President Buhari is a good and a welcome development and they should consider other areas and other citizens. Nigeria is not about civil servants alone; so government should also focus on how to better the life of the common masses in the country, especially traders and artisans. What is your advice to President Buhari as he gets set to resume for a second term on May 29?
My advice to President Buhari is for him to make people comfortable. He should know that despite the suffering of many years, the masses still supported and re-elected him. They did so because they believe that things are going to be good for them. So, we want to see those good things that made people to vote for Buhari. All Nigerians should benefit from his government. Former National Vice Chairman (South-East) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Nyerere Anyim, speaks in this interview with Felix Nwaneri on the outcome of the 2019 general election and the crisis brewing in the party over the leadership of the 9th National Assembly     How would you assess the… In “Politics” AKEEM NAFIU writes that although lawyers were at the weekend unanimous that the National Assembly was constitutionally empowered to make and amend laws for the good of the country, they, however, faulted the assembly’s committee on Electoral Act (amendment) Bill for a reordered sequence of 2019 general elections    … In “Law” President Muhammadu Buhari has dared the National Assembly by declining assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018, citing constitutional breaches in some of the actions of the lawmakers in the alteration process. This is as the National Assembly is warming up to override his veto. Already, the… In “News”