As Nigerians attempt to come to terms with the ordeal of Zainab Aliyu, a Nigerian student, recently released by the Saudi Arabian government to Nigeria following her arrest by Saudi security officials late last year in Saudi Arabia, her sister has given a tear-jacking account of the harrowing experience Zainab and her family members went through in faraway Saudi Arabia. The elder sister of Zainab, Hajara Habib Aliyu, who said she works as an IT and Communications Officer, was speaking during an appearance on Brekete Family, a popular Radio show in Abuja. Apparently aired before the release of Zainab, during the show, Hajara said it all began when she, along with her younger sister and mother, decided to travel to Saudi Arabia for lesser hajj. Arrested in a hotel in Madinah in late December 2018, Zainab faced the doom of the death penalty, the certain end of all convicted of crimes relating to peddling illicit drugs in the Arab country, Zainab didn’t heave a sigh of freedom until Tuesday, following intervention of the federal government as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari. “My name is Hajra Habib Aliyu, I am Zainab Aliyu’s sister, elder sister, she is my younger one. We are two in our family, I am the first born. We travelled on the 24th of December 2018, myself, my mum and Zainab. We travelled from Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano and arrived Jeddah on the 25th of December, around 2am. “So, we waited for our bus that would take us to Medina, we arrived Medina around 10 in the morning and when we reached there, we didn’t wait for the hotel that the visa people provided. So, we gave them the hotel we booked on our own so that if there is anything they need they can contact us. We lodged into our hotel, we went to the Masjid and offered our prayers and got back to the hotel. We waited a while and my mum said we should all go to bed because it was already 12 am, which was past bed time in Nigeria that was 10pm.” Without the faintest inkling that trouble was looming, the eldest of the Aliyu sisters was going through some works of photography before the course of events that has been the darkest chapter of their lives, began. “Immediately they entered the room, I asked my sister to go inside the room that I wanted to sleep as well and I chose the couch in our apartment. And because I am a professional photographer, there were people I snapped before we left, I work with Partners for Development as the IT and Communications Officer here in Abuja. So, I was editing the pictures, immediately the door to our apartment opened, I saw up to six or seven men came in after forcing the door open. “They said ‘sorry, this is not your room, we are looking for Zainab Aliyu’ in Arabic. I said ‘she is in the room with my mum, they have slept off, what’s wrong?’ They barged into the room where my mum was sleeping with my sister in their pyjamas without considering the fact that it is a Muslim country and those in there are women. My mum just opened her eyes and saw men wearing white garments and as they are very fair, she thought she had gotten to heaven already. “They were asking for Zainab and she pointed at Zainab but they said ‘no, this is a baby’ and she said that is Zainab that you are looking for. Then they said we left a luggage at the hotel’, to which we responded that we didn’t leave any luggage, showing them all our three bags. Everyone has a small and a big bag and we put our small bags in the big ones because my mum said she was not getting any box for anybody.” According to her, no matter what they said, the men were not convinced, insisting even after a thorough search, that Zainbab would go with them even if for a brief period. “So they ransacked the luggage, even opened the zips under and they didn’t see anything except my mum’s medicine which are for allergies she has and so we take her medicine whenever we are travelling. “They saw that but they said that other luggage has Zainab’s name on it at the airport so they had to go with her and that we can just give her money that she would use to eat and that it wouln’t take long before they bring her back. So they came with handcuffs and handcuffed her so she told my mum to remove her Hijab Bursting into tears for the first time in the video, perhaps upon another moment of realisation that her younger sister was treated like a common criminal, Hajara said Zainab asked to use their mum’s hijab because it was more comfortable as she was being taken away. “We stayed for two hours because we thought they were coming back. They went with her luggage as well as those we came with. We now had to call our dad. Surprised, he asked if we were not sleeping and we said yes as we told him what happened. He said we should calm down, that nothing was going to happen to her so that was how we stayed until the next morning and we didn’t hear anything. “So we called our visa man to please help give her our numbers so that she could call us to know where she was. She called around 4pm the next day that they had taken them away from Medina because at first they took them to … she went there and met one old man that was about 80 years old. She said they put them in a cell with a small window and she pleaded that she wanted to ease herself but they didn’t let her so she had to do it in her cell. She said she was just praying, praying altogether more than 40 rakats. She didn’t do salama (termination of prayer) because she didn’t know what was wrong. So they took her to Jeddah and she didn’t call until 12am the next day. “She only had our dad’s number so when they called him and he gave her our number in Saudi and when she called, she said ‘Mama, I am in prison’ and our mum just broke down. I have never seen her in that kind of situation and I had to be the strong one for them. So they said we had to call the Ambassador and we started making moves to contact him. My dad went to Kano International Airport the next day and insisted that they had to provide the people that worked that day. After the NDLEA interrogated seven people, they confessed that they put I,000 pieces of Tramadol and sugarcane in that bag.” According to her, the cartel, made up of men who specialise in tagging different names to luggage containing drugs they wanted delivered in the country, also specialised in selling Kgs that each traveller is allocated on the journey. “Two of our luggage had my name on it, the third had Zainab’s name. They already sold the kg allocated to my name but fortunately, they put something safe that passed safely. They put the name of Zainab and that of another man, 80-yearold man, on it. Hajara said while speaking about her case, Zainab, as it is her nature, also spoke to his father about an old man, Abubakar Ibrahim, in a cell close to her who only had 250 Riyahs and N2,500 in his wallet. Upon interrogation, she said arrested members of the cartel confessed about having tagged the man’s name to an illicit drug courier bag as well. With the way the saga played out, Hajara said one would have expected it all to be resolved quickly but some lethargy and bureaucracy set in despite the extreme nature of the case. “Finally, NDLEA wrote the report after three weeks and sent it over. We had to stay back, I told my mum we were not going anywhere and she said yes, we wanted the report to reach Saudi before we would leave. My sister would be calling to ask what the situation was because we thought it would only last days but unfortunately, we counted weeks and then months,” she submitted. It all turned out too overwhelming even for the show’s male presenter, who, while asking Hajara to make a passionate appeal for help to the wife of the president, Aisha Buhari, burst into tears as well. “I can only imagine the pain my mother is going through as my sister faces the death penalty for something she knows nothing about. I want her released so that I can see a smile of my mother’s face again, my sister is her best friend, I am the one hardly at home due to my work for the NGO but my sister, a final year student as the Yusuf Maitama Sule University (was always around). Everyday, she sends a message to her daughter, keeping hope alive that one day she will be back with us. President Buhari, please help save my sister’s life,” she pleaded movingly in the video. Meanwhile, beyond reacting to the recent release of Zainab Aliyu, Senator Shehu Sani, who represents Kaduna Central in the red chambers of the Nigerian Senate, has urged Nigerians to be careful when travelling out of the country through the airport. Following warnings that a criminal syndicate which specialises in transporting banned drugs through luggage of unsuspecting travellers is at work across the nation’s airports, Shehu Sani took to Twitter, advising travellers to videotape their actual luggage before checking in at the airport counter. “Advice; When travelling in or out of the country, use your phone to videotape the actual luggage you are checking in at the Airport counter, to protect yourself from those in the business of set up. A stitch in time saves nine,” he wrote. National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has uncovered a cartel which specialised in planting illicit drugs in travellers’ luggage. The NDLEA Chairman, Col. Muhammad Abdallah (rtd), disclosed this in a statement. The cartel was uncovered after NDLEA detectives embarked on investigation of a Nigerian lady identified as Zainab Aliyu. Zainab… In “Metro and Crime” Four months after her arrest and detention over alleged drug trafficking, the government of Saudi Arabia has released Miss Zainab Aliyu. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mustapha Sulaiman, confirmed Zainab’s release yesterday in a statement. Zainab, a student of Maitama Sule University, Kano, was arrested by Saudi Arabia… In “Metro and Crime” President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami, to intervene in the case of Nigerian student detained by Saudi Arabia Authority. Zainab Aliyu, a student of Maitama Sule University, Kano, who travelled for Lesser Hajj in Dec. 2018 was detained by… In “Metro and Crime”