Residents and community leaders of Agidingbi in Ikeja yesterday protested to the Lagos State House of Assembly over judgement of Supreme Court which awarded ownership of 398 acres of land in the community to a traditional landowning family, Akinole- Oshiun. The possession order covered a large part of Lateef Jakande Road housing Coca-Cola, Daily Times newspaper and Cadbury Plc., Acme Road where APC secretariat, banks and schools are located, Fagba Close among others, totaling over 2000 buildings. The protesters, who marched from Agidingbi to the state House of Assembly in Alausa, said Akinole-Oshiun family, who were the judgment-creditor in the case, had already given them seven-day ultimatum to vacate their houses, urging the government to quickly intervene to avert bloodshed. They displayed placard of various inscriptions such as “there is no ancestral link between Akinole and Agidingbi Land, Land Grabbers are enemies of Lagos State,” among others. Leader of Ojodu Legislative arm, Wasiu Bolaji-Seidu who is also a community leader in Agidingbi said the news of the possession order came to the community as a big surprise as nobody from the area was served with the court process that led to the judgment. He said: “On Friday, they (judgment-creditor) brought a judgment and placed it on our houses and said they have taken over the entire Agidingbi land. The issue is Agidingbi was not mentioned in the judgment; nobody from Agidingbi was part of the case and I don’t know how you will enforce a judgment against a person that was never part of the case. “Agidingbi has been in existence for over 200 years ago. I was born and bred in Agidingbi; my forefathers were born and bred in Agidingbi and I don’t see any reason why somebody will just wake up and say they are the owner of the community. “I am over 50 years; my father lived for over 90 years in this community before he died; my great grandfather died at the age of 150 years and I don’t know where Akinole is coming from and we have people like Habibatu Mogaji who was the Yeye-Oba of Agidingbi; we have Femi Okunnu who is our father in the community and we don’t know where Akin-ole came from.” Bolaji- Seidu urged the state government to activate the provisions of the Anti-Land Grabbing Law of the State, and prevent the matter from degenerating into a full blown crisis. “To the best of my knowledge, I know that Lagos State has enacted a law duly signed by the governor prohibiting land grabbing in the State because this is a clear example of such case. That is why we are here to call on the Lagos State House of Assembly to look into it and find a lasting solution, failure of which there will be bloodshed,” Bolaji-Seidu said. Also speaking, Baale of Agidingbi, Chief Ganiyu Ayinde Haruna, said they were embarking on the peaceful protest to call the attention of government to the silent crisis that is brewing in the community. Narrating how it all began, Haruna said: “On Friday last week, we woke up to see people posting possession order on our property and we don’t know these people. We have been living here for several years and the issue is we don’t know this family that is laying claim to ownership of our land. “We have never heard any relationship with this Akinole family and so it is surprising to us. Nobody knew anything about the court case. I mean how can you enforce court judgment against a party that was never part of the case? We are peaceful people and we are urging the Lagos State Government especially Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and the House of Assembly to intervene urgently in this matter because we don’t want bloodshed in our community.” Also speaking, an 83- year old resident and Iyalode of Agidingbi, Evang Dorcas Faworaja said her great grand-parents were born in the area, therefore the claimant cannot just come from anywhere and lay claim to the community. Receiving the protesters, Deputy Majority Leader of the Assembly, Hon Olumuyiwa Jimoh commended them for conducting themselves peacefully, assuring them that the House would look into their case. “Let me assure you that we are going to look into your petition without any fear or favour and I can assure you also that you will receive judgment at the end of the day,” Jimoh said. Hundreds of residents from Agidingbi area of Lagos State on Thursday stormed the Lagos State House of Assembly to protest the judgment of the Supreme Court over a land dispute in the area. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the apex court had granted judgment in favour of… In “National news” ...as family takes possession of 398 acres of land     Following a legal tussle that lasted almost 42 years between the Akinole-Oshiun family and Lagos State Government along with some interested parties, the family yesterday took possession of 398 acres at Agidingbi, Ikeja in Lagos. The members of the… In “News” Akinole Oshiun family yesterday said it had issued a seven-day notice to owners of some property at Ikeja, Alausa, Magodo and other areas, to regularise their titles on its land or risk demolition. Solicitors to the family, Ayo Opadokun & Co, at a media briefing in Lagos, said the notice… In “Metro and Crime”