Defendant admitted to N2m bail  The Police yesterday arraigned the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2018 governorship election in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke before an Abuja Magistrate’s Court sitting in Mpape over fresh charge bothering on certificate forgery.
The court consequently admitted him to bail in the sum of N2 million.  Adeleke was arraigned before the court on a five-count charge bothering on alleged false statement and forgery. The federal lawmaker was charged with alleged false statement that he attended Ede Muslim Grammar School in Ede, Osun State and he obtained West African School Certificate (WASC). The police also alleged that Adeleke forged the school letter of attestation purported to have been signed by one Mr. Abbas Khalid, the principal of the school. When the charge was read to him, he pleaded not guilty to all the five-count charge. His counsel, Prince Adebiyi Adeyosoye consequently moved an application for bail, premised on ill health. Prosecution counsel, however, opposed the application on grounds that the defendant did not show evidence of his ill health. However, the presiding Magistrate, Mohamned Zubaru, held that he was mindful to admit the defendant to bail. In admitting Adeleke to bail, he ordered him to produce one surety in the sum of N2 million, adding that such must be resident within the court’s jurisdiction. Adeleke was, earlier on Monday, detained by the police at its headquarters in Abuja, after he submitted himself for interrogation in line with an order of a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja. The police, after its interrogation, brought Adeleke to the Mpape Magistrate’s Court for arraignment on the allegations of forgery. Earlier, when the suit, marked: CR/26/19 was called, Adeleke’s counsel, Adeyosoye, told the court that it would be impracticable for the court to proceed with the arraignment on the grounds that the defendant is already standing trial on the same charge in two different High Courts. He submitted that going ahead with the arraignment would amount to abuse of court process. Adeyosoye further told the court that Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, who had, on Friday, May 3, granted Adeleke permission to travel abroad for medical attention, ordered the police not to hinder Adeleke from embarking on his medical trip scheduled for Tuesday 7, 2019. The counsel also presented before the court another order of a High Court in Osun, which specifically ordered the police not to arrest or prevent Adeleke from traveling abroad for medical attention. The two court orders were tendered and admitted in evidence as exhibit A and A1. He, accordingly, urged the court to adjourn indefinitely pending the hearing and determination of the two main suits. Responding, the defence counsel, Simon Lough, opposed the application for adjournment, on the grounds that the orders of the court on which the application was predicated did not say that the defendant cannot be arraigned.  Lough, in addition, informed the court that the complainant had already filed an appeal against the orders of Justice Ekwo of the Federal High Court. He, therefore, urged the court to dismiss the application and order the defendant to take his plea. Ruling on the application for adjournment, the Magistrate held that going by the hierarchy of court, the Magistrate’s Court is bound by the orders of a High Court. He further held that the court cannot stop the defendant from enjoying his fundamental rights as ordered by the High Courts. However, Magistrate Zubaru declined to adjourn the matter indefinitely on the grounds that nowhere in the two orders of the two High Courts were the police ordered not to arraign the defendant. He subsequently ordered that the charge be read to Adeleke for him to take his plea. The matter has been adjourned till June 24 for commencement of trial.