Chief Martin Onovo is a former presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP). In this interview with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE, he speaks on the 2019 general election, spate of insecurity and battle for the 2023 presidency, among other issues   How would you assess the outcome of the last general elections, considering the rejection of its outcome by some parties and the consequent cases at the various election tribunals?
The last general elections was the worst since Nigeria’s independence. The evidence that the presidential election result was altered is overwhelming. Even the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) server confirms that the results were altered to overthrow the will of the people, but Nigerians have rejected the fake results announced by the electoral commission. According to former governor of old Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, ‘in the 2019 general elections, we saw the worst we had ever seen in the form of scientific rigging… mere writing of results. This is the worst we ever saw since 1950.’
A human rights activist and lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN), called it an ‘expensive joke.’ Labour leaders have also condemned the fraud. Most foreign and local observers also condemned it. Christian and Muslim leaders have also condemned it. We condemn this electoral fraud categorically. It is treasonable! It must not stand!! Afenifere leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, has patriotically published that they will not recognise Muhammadu Buhari as president from May 29, unless the courts confirm him. It is unpatriotic to recognise Buhari as President after May 29. Are you saying that the country has not made progress in its electoral process, considering that it will be celebrating 20 years of return to democratic rule on May 29?
No! President Buhari has wiped out any democratic progress that Nigeria has made since 1999. He has returned Nigeria to what is worse than his military dictatorship of January 1984 to August 1985. There are two pillars of democracy, the rule of law and the integrity of the ballot. Both must be present in any democratic system. Both are absent in this dispensation. It is clear to all informed and objective patriots that the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration has destroyed democracy in Nigeria. What is your take on 20 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria?
We have not fared better. We made progress with former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He institutionalised the fight against corruption with the establishment of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offence Commission (ICPC). He developed the railway master-plan and also initiated dialogue with our aggrieved brothers in the Niger Delta region. Obasanjo also started the most ambitious power generation programme ever in Africa with the Nigerian National Integrated Power Project (NIPP) power generation plants. He secured $18 billion debt relief for Nigeria and also started the Excess Crude Account and the Nigeria Sovereign Wealth Fund. He left over $60 billion in our foreign reserves. Obasanjo is a great leader.
Then came President Umaru Yar’Adua who continued effectively with the Obasanjo power generation plans. He fought corruption by personal example. He reduced the price of petroleum products and controlled inflation. He started electoral reforms to improve democracy. He united the country and emphasized the universal values of integrity and justice. Unfortunately, he did not stay long enough in office as his health failed and he died.
Thereafter we had President Goodluck Jonathan, who has a large heart for all and united the country further. He progressed the railway master plan and also built new public universities. He also progressed and completed some NIPP projects. He tolerated all and even allowed the opposition to rig him out of power with under-age voters in the North and voters’ suppression in the South.
Thereafter we had President Buhari whose staff worship idols of deceit and false propaganda. Buhari turned Nigeria to the global capital of extreme poverty. He divided the people with his extreme sectionalism. He attacked the legislature, intimidated the judiciary and trashed the Constitution. He destroyed the military, destroyed democracy, overthrew the rule of law and turned the Nigeria Police Force to the worst police in the entire world.
Today with a destroyed military and the worst police in the world, combined with the unprecedented level of unemployment and poverty, Nigeria is now the third most terrorised country in the world with its very high levels of unemployment, crime and terrorism. How do you think Nigeria can strengthen her democratic process?
We can strengthen our democracy by defending the pillars of democracy from the vicious attacks of the present government. If we do this, then we will promote the rule of law and the integrity of the ballot, which are the pillars we are talking about. As we promote the rule of law and the integrity of the ballot, so shall we strengthen democracy in Nigeria. At the moment, there is insecurity in many parts of the country. What do you think is responsible for this?
It is the collapse of governance under President Buhari. He lacks the vision, discipline, intelligence, industry, knowledge and vigour to push for security and development in Nigeria. The principal factors responsible for insecurity in Nigeria are the perversion of public morality, unemployment, mediocrity, sectionalism and massive corruption in the current government. Empirically, it is very clear that all these factors are worse than when President Buhari took over power in 2015.
Even Falana has confirmed that President Buhari’s performance now is worse than his terrible performance as a military dictator between 1984 and 1985, when he was head of state. The facts are clear. According to Dr. Femi Aribisala, this is the ‘worst government in the history of Nigeria,’ What is your take on the lobbying and politics trailing the election of the leadership of the National Assembly for 9th National Assembly?
It is natural and lawful for politicians to play politics, especially for elective positions, but we must insist that all their lobbying and politics must conform to our laws and the rules of the National Assembly. Again, we must insist on the rule of law. What is your advice and expectation from President Buhari starts his second term?
President Buhari may not resume for a second term if he repents and confesses that he lost the elections. Also, he may not resume for a second term if the courts rule expeditiously in favour of the opposition in the presidential election petition. There is overwhelming evidence that President Buhari lost the election, but INEC falsified the result. He must accept his defeat, otherwise, he will be running an illegitimate government.
Remember that he had previously overthrown the civilian regime of President Shehu Shagari in 1984. Now, the will of Nigerians expressed in the 2019 elections have also been overthrown. The will of the people should be allowed to stand. Otherwise, the government will be illegitimate and be weighed down by the consequences of illegitimacy. Our advice and expectation is that President Buhari will confess that he lost the election, accept defeat and handover to the democratic winner of the 2019 presidential election. The battle for 2023 presidency has already commenced four years ahead. What is your take on the jostle over who produces the next president between the North and South?
That is very unpatriotic. Elections are to choose leaders and representatives who will provide good leadership. The purpose of government is the security and welfare of the people. It is unpatriotic to start now to battle for the 2023 presidential election. We need to correct the 2019 electoral fraud first and focus on good governance. By 2022, we can start the contest for the 2023 general elections. We have not concluded the 2019 presidential election. The presidential election tribunal is still looking at the petitions. We must first conclude the 2019 presidential elections and focus on good governance during the tenure till the next election cycle as would be established by INEC. We must not go from election to election and sacrifice good governance. What is your opinion on the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommendation to the Federal Government to remove fuel subsidy?
IMF recommendations for Nigeria have failed consistently without exception since the last 30 years. The neo-liberal postulations of IMF are inappropriate for our social-democratic political history and culture. IMF clearly does not understand and has never understood our socio-economic predicament. In December 2016, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said ‘the downstream sector has been deregulated with the elimination of petroleum subsidy. This policy has removed from government, a burden of not less than N15.4 billion monthly.’ Why is IMF back to the same remove fuel subsidy chorus?
It seems the IMF does not understand the ‘Price Cyclone’ associated with increasing the price of imported fuel. Apparently, lazy IMF ‘researchers’ simply copy generic neo-liberal templates and recommend them inappropriately for Nigeria without a good understanding of our socio-economic challenges. IMF correctly identified the problem of the fuel subsidy scheme as corruption in this government, which according to it includes corruptly re-exporting expensive imported petroleum products. Instead of addressing the issue as identified, the IMF jumped to its pre-determined neo-liberal conclusion that is clearly erroneous.
Fuel price has been increased about 20 times since 1973 and the results have all been terrible. From 8 kobo to 15 kobo to 20 kobo to 42 kobo to 60 kobo to 70 kobo to N3.25 and now to N145. Why are lazy IMF researchers repeating a remedy that has failed consistently 20 times? We challenge IMF to a debate on the subject. Considering that Nigeria is currently the global capital of poverty, an increase in fuel price now will make our situation worse. Macro-economic instability will follow, inflation, unemployment, poverty, disease and insecurity will increase. The Naira will again lose value further.