…deploys officers for Apapa traffic operation  Police in Lagos State have warned criminals to relocate or expect to be flushed out. The state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, gave the warning yesterday while launching ‘Operation Puff Adder,’ at the state Police Command Headquarters, Ikeja. Muazu said the command would take crime fighting battle to the doorsteps of criminals in the state. The commissioner said ‘Operation Puff Adder’ was part of the strategies to combat crime and criminality in all parts of the country. Muazu also inaugurated the Presidential Task Force to rid the Apapa- Oshodi Expressway of gridlock. More than 100 policemen to be deployed for the operation were drilled by some senior officers. The commissioner warned the policemen, who are involved in the operation, to work within the ambit of the law and follow the police ethics. He, however, said anybody that went contrary to the laid down laws would be punished. He said: “Today marks another milestone in the history of policing in Lagos. We are here to witness a renewed vigour and determination of the command to tackle security challenges confronting our dear state. “Of great concern are cases of cultism, traffic robbery, youth gangsterism and murder. We are today launching a special operation introduced by the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, codenamed ‘Operation Puff Adder,’ aimed at re-dominating and reclaiming the public space from heinous criminal elements, that are bent on threatening the nation’s internal security order. “Officers and men of the operation are drawn from Police Mobile Force (PMF), Tactical Units, Criminal Intelligence Bureau (CIB), Criminal Investigations Department, Rapid Response Squad, Task Force, and conventional policemen. “The policemen deployed for the operation are charged to ensure zero tolerance to all forms of criminality and deal decisively with criminal elements in the state. “Tough times indeed await those who choose the path of crime in the state. We will take the battle to their doorsteps. Lagosians have a right to peaceful and orderly lives because we wouldn’t allow criminals to take over the state.”