Chief Pius Ozoanekwe is a Chieftain of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and a former President-General of the Onitsha Market Amalgamated Traders Association (OMATA). In this interview with OKEGWO KENECHUKWU, Chief Ozoanekwe speaks on the possible invasion of Igboland by gunmen, state police, restructuring and leadership of the 9th Assembly  There is palpable fear in Nigeria, particularly in Igboland over speculation that gunmen may soon relocate to the South- East states. How will you react to this?  I will say that situation portends danger for every Nigerian, not only the South- East. The gunmen are everywhere. They have been attacking some parts of the South-East and this speculation, if is true will spell doom for Ndigbo. There is also fear that if they have been unsuccessful in carrying out their killings in the North- East and North-Central with all the powers and control they have, such attack on Ndigbo may be disastrous.  I therefore, want to use this opportunity to call on the leaders of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, led by Chief Nnia Nwodo, to summon without further delay a meeting of Igbo stakeholders including all the President- Generals of town unions, traditional rulers, political leaders, governors and civil society groups of Igbo extraction. It could be recalled that the Federal Government recently directed that the entire vigilante be disarmed of all the arms and ammunition in their possession. It is a dangerous precedence for Ndigbo because they will have nothing to defend themselves. It is also very clear to Nigerians that the Federal Government lacks the personnel and equipment to counter the challenges of terrorism, gunmen, and herdsmen, yet they disarmed the vigilantes.  The South-East lawmakers at both state and National Assembly should rise to the challenge and find out from the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Baratai and the Inspector General of Police why Ndigbo should not be allowed to at least protect themselves locally. Chief Nnia Nwodo should also as a matter of urgency lead a high powered delegation of Ohanaeze Ndigbo to the United Nations embassy’s of various country like America, Germany, Britain etc to lay before them the envisaged threat to our lives and the state of insecurity prevalent in Nigeria today. I am saying this because, an Igbo adage says: “Na obu osisi kasi n’ga egbu okwuru mana oburu madu ogbawa. Meaning that it is only a tree that will hear that it is going to be cut down and stay, but if is a human being the person will run for his/her dear life.   I want to warn that this call will not be treated with levity because if anything happens to Ndigbo we will hold the South-East governors and Ohaneze Ndigbo responsible. Let our leaders be courageous enough to speak. Why is it that the Fulani herdsmen and Boko Haram are still in possession of rifles and a harmless vigilante will be disarmed of even the cutlass or day gun he has? The prank is more than met the eyes.  The calls by some notable Nigerians for the establishment of a state police seems to be dying down and the Federal Government’s lacks adequate security personnel to tackle insecurity. Yet the Muhammadu Buhari administration seems to be giving attention to this, what would be your take on that?  Well, I think that the Federal Government will have no alternative now than to look for a more pragmatic measure towards tackling the collapsed security situation in the country, otherwise all of us would be consumed. The establishment of the state police is not negotiable. I read in the papers the other day that gunmen kidnapped an in-law to Mr. President in his own country home in Daura, Kastina State. This goes to show that all is not well and the insecurity is degenerating to a catastrophic level and taken another dimension too. Nigeria needs community policing and it is my view and contention that if there is community policing the country will witness peace and adequate security network. Today, there is increased highway kidnapping and robbery because the former Commissioner of Police dislodged community policing and he should be apprehended to come back and answer for it.  Ndigbo seems to be out of the ongoing 9th Assembly leadership contest. How does the Ohanaeze see this development?  To me it is needless engaging on an impossible mission. Ike Ekweremadu was able to achieve the feat because Goodluck Jonathan was the President and the PDP was in control. Today the reverse is the case. The APC government has hatred for Ndigbo and even if you give them the Senate President or speakership without good ministerial positions, it is all an exercise in futility. APC government will never develop the South-East. All these things you are seeing are all deceptive. Let them go with their leadership position after all we have no representatives in the security apparatus of the country, and God is still with us. By the way, Dr. Bukola Saraki is the Senate President. How did he develop Kwara State? Enugu-Onitsha and PH-Enugu Expressways were awarded during Olusegun Obasanjo regime some 20 years ago, it has taken an APC government four years to construct from Odumodu junction to Awkuzu, a distance of about one kilometre, who is fooling who? The same is applicable to Enugu to Port Harcourt.  The much-talked about 2nd Niger Bridge is ongoing. The socio-economic and political situation in Nigeria is worsening every day. As a stakeholder in the Nigerian project, what is the way out?  The answer is restructuring but the present government has zero tolerance for any issue about restructuring. Buhari has no agenda for restructuring but the earlier the country queued into the real federalism the better.  You have also been a businessman all through your life. How would you describe the business environment in the country today?  It is nothing to write home about. The Federal Government should as a matter of urgency declare a state of emergency in the trade and industrial sector. They must find a way of revamping the nation’s economy. The economy is in shambles. Traders are finding it extremely difficult to pay their bank loans and if this trend is allowed to continue, the nation will return to another round of recession. I will also say without contradiction that Ndigbo are the worst hit because about 80 per cent of them are traders. The Federal Government is making everything more difficult for the Igbo man. Yet the Igbo man themselves are torn in their own flesh themselves. In every market today the trade union structure has been hijacked by the state governments wherein they impose all forms of levies on the traders. It is really very unfortunate.