The Federal Government has stepped up efforts to dissuade young Nigerians from indulging in acts of criminality. It warned that efforts towards sustainable peace and security in Nigeria would remain a mirage if the youthful population was still perceived as perpetrators of violence, and insurgency. Minister for Youths and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, said this in Abuja on Wednesday at a continental study on ‘The Roles and Contributions of Youth to Peace and Security in Africa: West African Regional Consultation” organized by the African Union (AU) and supported by the European Union and German Cooperation. The study had in attendance youth representatives from each of the ECOWAS member states. The minister, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Olusade Adesola, said the need to recognize and appreciate the potentials of youths to positively contribute to sustainable security and as agents of peace is apt especially at a time when the country is contending with diverse situations that challenge peace and security. He also noted that the youth is the dominant demography in most conflict situations on the continent particularly in Nigeria with a youth population estimated at about 60 per cent of the country’s population of over 180million. Dalung stressed that until the youth are recognized as key actors in peace making and security process, the global efforts and desire for enduring and sustainable peace might remain a mirage.” He said: “Often, young people within the age brackets of 18-35 years are the main perpetuators of criminal and political violence, communal clashes and many other security issues. This development accounted for the skewed contemporary thinking on youth largely in the negative. “Youths must be conceptualized and fully involved as agents of positive change for peace in terms of, they must be engaged and involved in the broader social change processes to transform violence into peace through a more participatory and inclusive situations. “Examples abound across the globe on commendable contributions of young people towards peace and security such as the strengthening of community cohesion and reconciliation in South Sudan, Civic Awareness for peaceful social relations and development programmes in Nepal, trust-building across different ethno-religious groups in Sri Lanka, and community entrepreneurship and livelihoods programmes in Burundi and many more driven by the youth,” he said. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, said African youths have been seen as perpetrators of the increasing volatile security challenges in the western Sahara, the Sahel and Nigeria, because they are ill informed and uneducated. He said this makes them easily brainwashed and recruited to destabilize societies. The minister, who was represented by the Head of AU division, Foreign Affairs Ministry, Chimezie Okafor, said, African youths demographic size have created a vulnerable group of vast army of ill informed and the uneducated recruited as insurgents, involved in violent extremism, transnational crime, human trafficking, drug abuse, money laundering, cyber crime and religious fanaticism.