 The Chairman Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN} in 19 Northern States including FCT Abuja, Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam, has asked the Federal Government to devise lasting solution to the never-ending farmers and Fulani herdsmen crisis in the Northern part of the Country. Rev. Pam stressed that the Federal Government under the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari needs to find a permanent solution to the crisis, pointing out that many lives were being lost in the hostilities in the north and other parts of Nigeria.
He was speaking with journalists in Jos, the Plateau State capital on Saturday after he was re-elected for another three-year-term, as Northern CAN Chairman. The CAN Chairman also wants the Federal Government to ensure that Nigerian borders are properly manned to reduce entry of illegal immigrants into the Country, who he said are on a mission to kill innocent citizens. His words: “The Federal Government should put in strategies to take over our borders, is like we are not in total control of our borders.” He also calls on the Federal Government to put more effort in reducing the issue of unemployment in the country, saying lack of unemployment for the teeming Youths has created criminality in Nigeria. His words: “The Federal Government should work in synergy with the Northern Governors Forum and make sacrifice for the masses; let a permanent solution be provided for the various challenges facing the 19 Northern States. “I want to use this opportunity to call on the federal government and Northern Governors to join hands with community leaders to tackle the challenges of insecurity in the Northern states so that the people can go about doing their businesses to earn a living.
“There can be no development in the North, if conducive environment is not created for investors to show interest in investing in Northern states.” Rev Pam warned that unemployment in the North will continue to be on the increase “unless those causing the current crisis of insecurity and chaos lay down their arms and give peace a chance .” The CAN chairman condemned consistent attacks and circle of killings and revenge in Bassa Local Government of the Plateau State and appealed for calm from both the Fulani herdsmen and the Irigwe People. He, however, called on Christian leaders in the North to continue to pray for a peaceful environment for Christian faithful to practice their faith in any part of the North and Nigeria as a whole.