Adeleke Blessing Ibukunoluwa is one of the young actresses currently rocking the scenes in the Yoruba movie genre of Nollywood. She is the only daughter and first child of her family. The sexy diva revealed to ABIOLA ALABA PETERS how she joined the industry eight years ago, her love life and why she will never have sex with movie producer or director for a role  Growing up as a child, could you recall some of your experience, were you born with a silver spoon? I wasn’t born with a silver spoon neither did I grow up in a poor environment. My parents were average; we didn’t lack anything as children.  What really influenced your acting career? Well, nothing really. It’s something I have passion for a long time and I thank God for the journey so far. What has been keeping me going was when I was still in theatre school, whenever we are rehearsing, my boss and some senior colleagues will say things like, ‘you are good at what you do and you will go places with this skills’. So, I then decided not to relent. Though it has not been easy but I’m still striving and pushing it.  Can you shed more light on why you said it hasn’t been easy? Well, it hasn’t been easy in the sense that what I expected isn’t what I’m experiencing at the moment. I have been through a lot in this industry. I have paid more than enough dues. I can’t tell it all but Glory to God. I’m still striving.  What are your expectations and what did you get? Let’s not go into details. Let me just keep it to myself. Everything is falling into place now.  What are the challenges facing you in the industry? The challenges most upcoming artistes are also facing. Like going to location and not getting paid for what you are meant to be paid for, but we don’t have any choice, this is because we want our talents to be seen and recognised.  Are you still experiencing it? Not really. Share with us some of the movies you have featured in? My first was in ‘Dagbere’ produced by my boss, Oluwole Cole. That should be in 2012 or 2013. ‘Mulika Alala’, ‘Baba Ame’, ‘Amnesia, ‘Omo Jezebel’, and my own Movie, ‘Obiri’ (still showing on YouTube on Yorubaplus), ‘Eleri mi’, ‘Asesile’, and there are some I can’t remember their titles again.  Which one really announced you? I will say my movie, ‘Obiri’. The movie was shot in 2017. It was directed by Murphy Afolabi and sponsored by my brother and friend, Olayemi Adeodu aka Mr. Platinum. The movie was about a lady who deeply loved her boyfriend to an extent of sacrificing what she had including her future. Thereafter, she was abandoned by the same man and this led to her untimely death.  Kindly give us some of the big names you have worked with in the movie industry? Funsho Adeolu, Mercy Aigbe, Jumoke George, Bileda, Okele,Gaji, Iyabo ojo, All well Ademola, Mr. Latin, etc. I can’t mention them all.  What is your view about the Industry? The industry is cool, but there are too many sidelines. There are some talents that have not been shown to the world just because of one thing or the other that I won’t want to go deeply into, but I know some people already have a better understanding of what I’m saying. Nevertheless, the industry is fun if we can let some certain things slide and just enjoy the shades it brings.  For an outsider to have a better understanding of what you are saying, what are the things? Some talents are not showing to the world because they didn’t meet up with the demands from some directors or producers in the industry. For instance, something to do with sex or money in exchange for a role and it is really telling on us in the industry. Most of our people fall for upcoming artistes who came to the industry with cool cash and not those struggling with their raw talents, thinking it is best if fresher’s come in as producers and not just an actor for them to boom in no time. Before some of the directors can give you tangible roles to play, you have to dance to their tune which doesn’t speak well. Though, we still have some kind-hearted directors and producers who help upcoming acts when they see the kind of talent in such person.  Have you ever been harassed sexually in the movie industry and how did you deal with it? Yes, I dealt with it in a matured way. I shared a room with a guy that I won’t mention his name or his position. I had to sleep on the floor till the next day.  Tell us about your love life? Sorry, I like to keep that private.  Tell us about your educational background? My primary school was at Joy Children School, and then I proceeded to Iju Secondary School and High Standard College Iju-Ishaga, Lagos State. I later gained admission at the University of Lagos to study Economics.