With the inflation rate on a downward trend in the first three months of this year, financial experts were already predicting that members of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) may want to further reduce or leave interest rates unchanged at the end of their two-day meeting tomorrow. The Committee had cut the benchmark interest rate-the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR)- from 14 per cent to 13.5 per cent at its last meeting in March. Prior to this time, the MPR, which is used to determine bank lending rates and the cost of credit for borrowers, had been held at a record high of 14 per cent since July 2016. In a recent note, analysts at FSDH Research stated: “Although the declining inflation rate is still higher than the 6%-9% target of the CBN, it has supported the low yields currently available in the fixed income market. The MPC members may be inclined towards reducing policy rates.
“However, FSDH Research believes the short-term outlook of the global economy remains uncertain and may not sustain strong growth in crude oil prices. Therefore, a cautious approach to the conduct of monetary policy is appropriate, given the current situation.  “The Nigerian economy has recorded relative improvements in the last few months. FSDH Research believes the short-term outlook of the global economy remains uncertain and may not sustain strong growth in crude oil prices. Therefore, a cautious approach to the conduct of monetary policy is appropriate, given the current situation,” the firm added. Similarly, in a note issued earlier this month, the Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, stated that the last cut in the monetary policy rate had: “no impact on investment, output and savings”, even as he predicted :“There is a possibility of another 25 basis point cut.” According to him, if the MPC does not reduce the MPR, it could leave it unchanged at 13.5 per cent but cut the Cash Reserve Ratio ( CRR) to 22 per cent per annum. However, in a fresh note he issued a few days ago, Rewane stated: “The MPC meeting will hold on May 20/21. At the meeting, we expect policy decisions to be hinged on inflation expectations rather than historical data. Given the outlook on inflation, the committee is likely to be hawkish in its policy response. Moreso, Mr. Emefiele has been re-appointed as the CBN Governor by the President for the next five years. Following the Senate’s confirmation, we expect to see continuity in current monetary policies.” Analysts point out that the likelihood of the MPC returning to its hawkish stance is even greater now given that contrary to analysts’ predictions that it would decline, April 2019 inflation rate jumped to 11.37 per cent from 11.25 per cent in the previous month, according to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) last Wednesday. It was the first increase in the rate this year, a development analysts attributed to the increase in food prices. The NBS report stated that food index rose by 13.70 per cent in April compared to 13.45 per cent in March.