AWARENESS
The purpose of the enlightenment programme is to give participants an understanding of the operations of the capital market  In a bid to further reduce the quantum of unclaimed dividends in the Nigerian capital market, the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC has urged beneficiaries of deceased investors to step up efforts to claim such dividends. This was stated by the Acting Director General of the SEC, Ms Mary Uduk in her welcome remarks at the enlightenment programme for Lagos State Probate Registry in Lagos, yesterday. Uduk, who was represented by Acting Executive Commissioner Operations of the SEC, Mr. Isyaku Tilde, said the purpose of the enlightenment programme is to give participants an understanding of the operations of the capital market, especially in the area concerning transmission of shares and administration of estate, areas in which the Probate Registry is a key stakeholder. Uduk stated that one category of investors whose investment yields have contributed to the growth of unclaimed dividends are deceased investors, whose beneficiaries as indicated in the will or letter of administration are yet to claim the investments and accrued dividends through the share transmission process. “The capital market is a market for raising medium to long term capital via a number of instruments,” she explained. “The most popular of the instruments are shared and bonds with resultant yields of dividends and interests respectively. “However, the quantum of unclaimed dividends in the Nigerian capital market has been on the increase as investors fail to claim the dividends from their investment in shares. Uduk also congratulated the Probate Registry on the recent commissioning of the e-filing probate registry saying it will guarantee integrity of data, provide for online tracking of applications, simplify and shorten the application process of Letter of Administration and grants. She therefore restated the readiness of the SEC to collaborate with the Probate Registry staff so that together the Nigerian capital market can become a desirable investment destination. There is the need for market operators to improve in their investor education in the bid to finally rest the knotty issues of multiple subscriptions in the local bourse. Chris Ugwu writes   To finally address the knotty issues of multiple subscriptions by market regulators is commendable but the ineptitude… In “Business” There is need for market regulators to improve investor education in the bid to finally rest the knotty issues of e-dividend in the local bourse. Chris Ugwu writes   E-dividend system of payment was introduced by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in a bid to address the delay associated… In “Business” The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has advised Nigerian youths to invest in capital market instead of indulging in gambling. Acting Director General of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, who stated this, said there were various products and funds available in the market that will appeal to the youth populace… In “Business”