Ondo, Ogun, Lagos and Ekiti states yesterday marked this year’s children’s day in grand style with a call for the respect of Child’s Right Act. For instance, while Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu raised an alarm over the rate at which children and school age pupils abuse alcoholic beverages and drug in the country, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Akinwwunmi Ambode and Kayode Fayemi, advised children and youths against engaging in drug abuse and use of illicit substances. However, Akeredolu, who was speaking at this year’s Children Day Celebration in Akure, the State capital identified drug abuse as major public health and security concern in the country. He said: “As one of the intervention to ensure a protective and guaranteed future for our children, I constituted a two-tier intervention structure comprising high level Ministerial Committee on the elimination of Drug Abuse for a coordinated response in addressing the challenges posed by Drug and substance abuse among the teaming populace. “It is worthy of mention that the Presidential Advisory Committee is currently interfacing with core stakeholders, drug experts, rehabilitated drug users at all levels so as to make appropriate recommendations to government on interventions required to reverse this ugly trend.” To Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who spoke at the Children’s Day celebration held at the MKO Abiola International Stadium, Abeokuta, called on stakeholders to rise up and take decisive actions towards stemming rising cases of drug abuse in the country. He said: “Drug abuse is not only when you use illegal substances but also when you use legal substances in a way outside prescription. If you take more than the regular prescribed dosage or use someone else’s prescription, you are invariably abusing the drug. “Drug abuse sometimes leads to drug addiction. Drug addiction is a disease that affects the brain and behaviour. When one is addicted to drugs, he or she will not be able to resist the urge to use them, no matter how much harm the drugs may cause. “At first, you may choose to take a drug because you like the way it makes you feel. You may think you can control how much and how often you use it. “But over time, illegal use of drugs will change how your brain works. These physical and psychological changes can last a life-time. They can make you lose selfcontrol and can lead you to damaging behaviours.” Akinwunmi Ambode urged the children to always believe in themselves as his administration’s intervention in the education was of international standard. “I want to encourage the children to believe in themselves. As our future leaders, you must endeavour to become the best you and continue to be source of joy to your parent, our dear state and nation. I have no doubt in my mind that the education of our children and their general well-being will continue to receive deserved attention,” Ambode said. Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi declared that his governmentwould continueto work hard to prevent all form of crimesagainstchildrenand humanity in the state. Fayemi added that his government would tighten noose on perpetrators of child labour, trafficking and prostitution through legal and robust policy formulation in order not to destroy the lives of the country’s future leaders. Fayemi said: “We have enacted laws like gender based violence prohibition law, child right law, equal opportunities law and also introduced school feeding programme to add values to the lives of our children. “We are committed to your future and we enjoin our parents to collaborate with government , so that our policies targeted at the children population can be achieved. “These children are our future and we will protect them through effective government policies and actions.”