The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Makurdi zonal office, has arraigned one Mrs. Anna Ogbole and her company Henot Global Business Limited on a two-count charge for alleged issuance of dud cheque. Mrs. Ogbole was arraigned before Justice Samson O. Itodo of the Benue State High Court sitting in Makurdi the Benue State capital. Head of Public Affairs in the state, Mrs. Nwanyinwa Okeanu said in a statement released to newsmen that the office of the zonal head of the commission received a petition from a  complainant against Mrs. Ogbole alleging that he entered into an agreement with the suspect to finance a contract she was awarded. According to the statement, the complainant alleged that he made a contribution to the sum of N3,200,000 towards the execution of the project. “That, the suspect issued him a cheque of the said amount which was returned unpaid. That he had persuaded the suspect to honour their agreement personally and through several responsible persons but all turned fruitless”. Count One of the charges read: “That you Ann Ogbole being the Managing Director of Henot Global Business Limited and you Henot Global Business Limited on or about the 19th  November, 2017 at Makurdi within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did with the knowledge that you had insufficient funds in the account of Henot Global Business Limited issued to one Adima Godwin Egbe, a First Bank Cheque No. 19659920 dated 19th November, 2018 for the sum of N3, 200, 000.00 ( Three Million, Two Hundred Thousand Naira Only ) which the said cheque, when presented for payment within three months of issuance, was dishonoured due to insufficient funds and you thereby committed an offence contrary to section 1 (1) (b) of the Dishonoured Cheques (Offences) Act Cap D11 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and punishable under Section 1 (1) (b) (i) and (ii) of the same Act”. The accused, however, pleaded ‘not guilty’ when the charges were read to her. Prosecution counsel, G. G. Chia-Yakua, asked for a trial date and urged the court to remand the accused in prison custody. However, the accused counsel, E. C. A. Hundu, told the court that he has a bail application before the court and urged the court to grant his client bail. Justice Itodo granted bail to the accused in the sum of N500,000 only with two surties in like sum and to show evidence of three-year tax clearance. The court said surties must reside in Makurdi township, and submit their two recent passport photographs. The case was adjourned to June 10 and 11 2019 for trial.