Barely one year after the Federal Government approved increase in excess of 500 per cent implementation in excise duty rates for alcoholic beverages, spirits and tobacco, alcoholic firms and others are now counting their losses, especially as it affects their bottom-line and revenue. Taiwo Hassan reports   In fact, when the Federal Government announced that new excise duty rates implementation for tobacco and alcoholic beverages consumption in the country would take effect on June 4 2018, many of the alcoholic beverage brewing firms did not know that the multiplier effect would be astronomical and devastating until now.
Tales emerging in the last one year among operators in this sector showed that government’s excise duty rates have affected them significantly as they have been struggling to remain in business beyond their expectations.
Indeed, why justifying the reasons for government jerking up the excise duty the then Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, alluded to the fact that it was planned by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to shore up the country’s revenue drive.
Unfortunately, the administration did not consider the huge volatility the hike would have on the breweries and prices of raw materials nationwide.
The excise duty rates were spread over a three-year period beginning from 2018 to 2020, in order to moderate the impact on prices of the affected products.
A breakdown of the tariff introduced by government showed that under the new approved excise duty rates for alcoholic beverages, which cut across beer &stout, wines and spirits for the three years 2018 to 2020, beer and stout would attract N0.30k per centiliter (Cl) in 2018 and N0.35k per Cl each in 2019 and 2020, wines would attract N1.25k per Cl in 2018 and N1.50k per Cl each in 2019 and 2020, while N1.50k per Cl was approved for spirits in 2018, N1.75k per Cl in 2019 and N2.00k per Cl in 2020 respectively. Operators’ experiences
Addressing journalists at the Nigerian Breweries Plc’s pre-annual general meeting in Lagos recently, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Jordi Borrut Bei, lamented that the implementation of the excise duty on alcoholic beverage by government took an adverse effect on the company’s bottom-line and finances last year.
Jordi explained that volatility in the Nigerian economy, especially the 500 per cent excise duty rates impacted negatively on NB Plc’s 2018 financial results as its group’s revenue declined by 5.8 per cent, from N344.5 billion (2017) to N324.4 billion.
According to him, the difficult operating environment reflected on the performance of companies especially in the fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sectors.
He added that most players’ margins continued to fall, even when there were sales, with profitability constantly under pressure, thereby attributing this to the take-off of the implementation of excise duty rates for alcoholic beverages.
Jordi admitted that last year was a very challenging period for the company in terms of operating environment, adding that the company faced difficult headwinds, especially double digit inflation, which disrupted the group’s 2018 financial projections.
The NB helmsman explained that the rates forced the group’s loans and borrowings to increase to N41 billion collected from banks in 2018 from N8 billion in 2017.
In addition, he also disclosed that there was a job cut of 10 per cent in the company’s workforce following the multiplier effect of the new tariff.
Similarly, the Chairman of Distillers and Blender Association of Nigeria (DIBAN) under the auspices of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Chief Patrick Anegbe, disclosed that the skyrocketing increase in excise duty selectively imposed on domestic wines and spirits distorted industry investments and projection targets for 2018.
He said that his members kicked against the implementation of the take-off of the excise duty rates last year by complaining that the timing was wrong in all totality.
Anegbe explained that it had significantly affected not only the wines and spirits industry but other key sectors of the economy and businesses, such as packaging industries, bottles, cartons, labels, cork, laminates, glue, ink, printing, laboratory, marketing, consulting, media, to mention a few.
Particularly, the DIBAN chairman noted that the excise duty increase had led to shutdown of local firms in the wine and spirit sector.
According to him, based on the over 500 per cent increase approved by government, the domestic wine and spirit sector of the economy contributed over N120 billion in tax to the national treasury alone last year, whereas, the industry does not even generate up to half of that sales, so jerking up the duty by 500 per cent overnight has resulted in the inability of businesses and investors from investing in Nigerian market. OPS’ stance
Already, members of the organised private sector (OPS), especially MAN and Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), condemned the rates because of its effect on the fragile economy. Last line
Unfortunately, the second phase of the excise duty rates is expected to take-off next month and this means that more trouble awaits operators in this sector with more shutdowns, job losses as well as less revenue.