 Residents of Batsari yesterday buried 18 farmers killed by bandits in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State.
The victims were buried amidst tears by families and sympathisers at Dantako Cemetery in Katsina town.
This came as President Muhammadu Buhari expressed shock over the farmers’ killings.
The farmers were killed in their farmlands at Yar-gamji community on Tuesday morning.
Police later evacuated the victims’ bodies and dropped them at the palace of the District Head of Batsari, Alhaji Tukur Muazu Ruma, which triggered a protest by angry youth.
The youth later took the bodies in vehicles to the palace of the Emir of Katsina and Katsina State Government House, where Governor Aminu Masari addressed them.
The governor called on the protesters to remain calm as the government was taking steps to address the problem.
Yesterday, the funeral prayer was led by the Chief Imam of Katsina, Sheikh Mustapha Ahmad, about 11a.m., at the palace of the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kabir.
Those who attended the prayer included the emir, Kabir, the Transition Committee Chairman of Batsari, Alhaji Mannir Muazu, traditional and religious leaders.
The Chief Imam prayed God to forgive the victims their sins and grant them eternal rest.
He also prayed God to avert future occurrence.
Both the district head of Batsari and the transition committee chairman of the area urged security agents to intensity efforts to protect people’s lives and property in the area.
They also enjoined people to continue to be law-abiding as government was taking steps to address the problem.
Meanwhile, Buhari has assured Nigerians that government would restore peace and stability in the state.
The President, in a statement issued in Abuja yesterday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, direced the Acting Inspector-General of Police (IG), Mohammed Adamu, and the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, to constitute an assessment team to intervene immediately in the state, and bring a feedback.
The statement reads in part: “President Buhari, specifically, instructed the security chiefs to find out how the operation was carried out by the perpetrators, not minding the Holy month of Ramadan, and put in place structures to prevent future occurrence.
“The President, who has been briefed on the criminal and political intents of the attacks in Katsina and other parts of the North, described the carnage as senseless.
“President Buhari admonished that all those instigating violence in the North and other parts of the country will be exposed and made to face the wrath of the law.”