The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has done well by making former players relevant in the dayto- day running of football in the country. A member of the backroom staff of the Super Eagles, Patrick Pascal, is the coordinator of the senior national team. Pascal was a former Super Eagles player. Also, a former skipper, Sunday Oliseh, was given the Super Eagles job a few years back.  Samson Siasia got the U-23 job and led Nigeria to clinch bronze at the 2016 Olympic Games football event in Brazil, while Emmanuel Amuneke was also given the U-17 and U-20 jobs. Amuneke, now the Technical Adviser of Tanzania, won the U-17 FIFA title for Nigeria.  During the week, NFF, as part of preparing Eagles for the forthcoming Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) billed to take place in Egypt next month, named Nwankwo Kanu, Austin Okocha and Tijani Babangida as motivational figures of the Eagles and also as scouts to monitor the opponents of the team before and during the competition in the North African country.  We acknowledge that the trio, at various times, played a huge role in the national team and also served the country in their prime.  We believe the assignment given to them by the Federation is another commendable step because these are players who have seen it all in the game. If any of these former internationals talk to the current players in the Eagles, they must listen.  They can play a huge role in motivating the players and give them confidence to overcome any opposition in the competition. We make bold to say this move could go a long way in making players go the extra mile to achieve success. Kanu, Okocha and Babangida are to report to Eagles’ Manager, Gernot Rohr, but we hope they won’t go beyond their mandate.  We therefore insist that none of them should interfere with the composition of those to be invited to camp and those who will make the eventual line-up.  Rohr can be advised based on what they must have seen while playing their respective monitoring roles, but it is important they display maturity and allow the manager to be fully in charge of the team. As former players, they could have strong opinions, but we expect these respected former internationals to discharge their roles professionally and allow Rohr to objectively pick his team.  They should offer advice on merit and allow the technical crew to do their jobs in the  best interest of the country.  The three ex-players are indeed a blessing to the team, but if their roles are not clear cut and well managed, the decision to engage them could be counter-productive. We again commend NFF for the good job done so far in preparing the team, but the officials are expected to look at the loopholes to be filled to make AFCON 2019 great for Nigeria.  The Eagles failed to qualify for the 2015 and 2017 editions. It is hoped that the return of the team will be a great one for Nigeria. So much more work will still have to be done to bring out the best in the Eagles. Also during the week, the Federation rolled out plans for the continental football showcase.  The body confirmed Asaba as the starting point of the AFCON preparations. Two friendly matches against Zimbabwe and Senegal were also confirmed.  The Zimbabwe tie will take place at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, while that of Senegal will take place in Ismailia, the camp base of the team, just a few days to the opening of the Nations Cup finals. We hail the decision of NFF to secure quality friendly games for the team, especially that of Senegal, the number one team in the rankings of FIFA on the continent.  We call on Rohr and his technical team to work hard and ensure that efforts of the Federation on the preparations did not go in vain. The Eagles must make the friendlies count, because build-up games are crucial to the readiness of the team for the finals.  The players have to also up their game in all aspects. We expect better commitment from them at a time like this, because some of these players fail to show same zeal they display in their respective teams when they are in the Nigerian colours. Nigeria is blessed with abundant talents, not only in football, but in many other sport disciplines.  We enjoin the administrators to also work hard to identify and groom best athletes for the country and also bring out good results to put smile on the faces of sports-loving people in Nigeria.  NFF should not rest in its efforts to bring glory to Nigeria through the national teams. We are aware that the Falcons and Flying Eagles are also enjoying good preparations for the FIFA Women’s World Cup and the FIFA U-20 tourney coming up in France and Poland later in the year.  We hereby stress that all logistics for Eagles’ AFCON campaign must be well handled, especially now that the event is getting closer.