Islamic clerics have called on Nigerians, especially Muslims to be committed to Allah in their service and ensure that they fear and serve Him diligently even beyond the holy month of Ramadan. The clerics including the renowned fiery Islamic preacher, Sheik Muyideen Ajani Bello; Chief Iman Idoluwo Mosque, Lagos Island, Alhaji Imam Abdullateef Utman and President of the movement, Mr. Saheed Olalere, who spoke at the Ramadan lecture and special prayer for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, organised by Babajide Sanwo-Olu Progressives Movement in Lagos, urged Muslims to be committed to the Islamic faith. In his sermon, Sheik Bello, who is the guest speaker, advised Muslims to be committed to serving God and ensure that they do everything necessary not to allow politics to ruin 8their life and Islamic faith. He commended the Babajide Sanwo-Olu Progressives Movement for promoting Islam religion by deeming it fit to organise a Ramadan lecture and seeking prayers for Governor Sanwo-Olu. “We must all ensure that we fear Allah because he knows us before we were given birth to and He knows the number of years we are going to spent on earth. Only Allah knows when people will die. So, He expects us to fear Him. “Nigeria would have been better if we all serve God the way we are committed to politics. Many are in politics because of money and not commitment to the party and nation. As we are committed to our party, let us also be committed to God,” he said. Sheik Bello who prayed for President Muhammadu Buhari and commended the president for his anti-corruption war, also prayed for Governor Sanwo-Olu and seek the face of God for good people to work with the governor. Also speaking, Olalere urged Muslims to follow the principles and the lay down of the Holy Quran that guides the fasting, adding that they should fast and have sober reflection as well as learning the way to forgive and forget. “We believe that all power belong to Almighty God. We select our leaders and they need God’s guidance because some people have the mind to do good things for the masses but if they are not been guided by God, they may not achieve it. They may not even do it. So, we believe that we should commit our leaders to God’s hand for God to take total control and direct them to right path to implement policies that will be suitable to the masses and improve our economy generally. We are also praying that God should take total control of everything in Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole,” he said. Imam Uthma said: “I believe the organiser have put everything in place to pray for the leaders, pray for the country, the nation as a whole and the state. So, Governor Sanwo-Olu needs prayer for a successive tenure. So the prayer is very good for the nation. “My message to the nation is peace, unity, tranquility and easy going for everybody. My message to the leaders is that they should be honest and just in directing our course. And for those of us who are not leaders, we should be obedient to God.”