By: Muhammad Kabir, Kano Despite a Court order restraining Governor Ganduje, his Government, State Assembly from issuing Appointment Letters to four new Emirs, the government has said it is  going ahead with the programs because they were not served by the court. An Aide to the governor Ganduje who wouldn’t want his names mentioned told our correspondent that, “we are going ahead with the program as scheduled because we are yet to received any court order stopping us”. A Kano High Court,  on Friday had halted Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the Kano State House of Assembly and the Speaker, Clerk of the Assembly, including the Attorney-General and the State from implementing the break-up of Kano Emirate and the issuance of the appointment letters to the Four new Emirs. In an exparte  motion, dated, May 10, 2019, filed by the plaintiff, Hon Sule Gwarzo, before Justice Nasiru Saminu, seeking the court to restrain the respondents from taking any action of creating four additional Emirates. In an order of interim injunction, the Court directed all parties in this suit to maintain status quo, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. Governor Ganduje signed a law on Wednesday, which created four additional Emirates, a move that was widely viewed to reduce Emir Sanusi’s influence. The order, directing the defendants/respondents to halt the publication and release of the law, accented on May 8, 2019, namely: Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition), (Amendment), Law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”An order of interim injunction, retraining the Defendants/Respondents from taking steps or giving effect to the Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition) (Amendment) law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”It also restrained the 4th Defendant/Respondent from appointing or recognizing any purported Emir under Kano State Emir’s (Appointment and Deposition) (Amendment) law, 2019 (1440 AH), pending hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”It further restrained the 4th Defendant from giving a staff of office or appointing anyone whatsoever as Emir of Gaya Emirate, Bichi Emirate, Rano Emirate and Karaye Emirate, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. ”An such further or other orders, as this Honourable Court may deem just to make in the circumstances. The matter has been adjourned to May 15, 2019 for hearing on motion on notice. But the government insisted that it has not been served as such they are going ahead with the program slated for Saturday at the State Indoor Stadium. The four new Emirate Councils are Bichi, Rano, Gaya and Karaye.