Three persons were reported killed in a fresh attack by gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen in the southern part of Kaduna State. The attack occurred at Gerti village, Kaninkon in Jama’a Local Government Area of the state. It was learnt that the attack occurred about 8a.m. when the farmers were cultivating their farm. The state police command is yet to react or confirm the killings, as the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Yakubu Sabo, was yet to respond to messages sent to his phone at press time. But the Councillor representing Kaninkon Ward, Christopher Yakubu Philip, said the victims, including a man and his son, were working on their farm when the gunmen attacked them. Christopher told journalists on the phone that the “victims were busy with their farm work when armed Fulani herdsmen opened fire on them and killed three of them on the spot”. The councillor, however, said one person, escaped to the village to alert the community about the attack. According to him, the youth in the village and soldiers in the area then went to the farm to recover the victims’ bodies. He said: “This morning (yesterday), a man, his son and one other person were killed in the farm by armed Fulani herdsmen. “It happened about 8a.m. when they were busy working on their farms. The herdsmen opened fire on them and killed three of them on the spot. One person managed to escape and came to alert the community. “The soldiers on security duty, accompanied by some youths, went to the scene of the incident and recovered the corpses. This attack is very unfortunate and it is a set back for our people, especially, coming during farming season.” Christopher also called on security agencies to do everything possible to fish out the perpetrators of the crime and bring them to justice. The councillor appealed to government to deploy more security personnel to check the activities of bandits. He said: “Our people are mainly farmers and if this kind of attack is allowed to continue, it will be difficult for them to go to their farms. So I am appealing to government to take necessary steps to further boost security in the area.”