Reactions have continued to trail the release of Zainab Aliyu, a student of Maitama Sule University, Kano, who travelled for Lesser Hajj last December and was detained by the Saudi Arabia authorities for allegedly being in possession of a banned substance, with a number of female clerics expressing their views to ESTHER BAKARE  Not too long ago news broke that Zainab Aliyu, the student incriminated in drug-related matters in Saudi Arabia, had been released following a directive from President Muhammadu Buhari to Mr Abubakar Malami, the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to immediately intervene in her case. The Maitama Sule University, Kano student had travelled to Saudi Arabia last December to take part in the Lesser Hajj last December, when tramadol, a banned substance, was found in her luggage prompting her arrest. However, Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora matters, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, said that Buhari had waded in two weeks ago when the matter was brought to his attention. A few days later, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs disclosed that Zainab Aliyu was released to the Nigerian mission in Saudi Arabia on Tuesday. Since then mixed reactions have continued to trail her release especially following the continued detention of Leah Sharibu, the only Christian girl still in Boko Haram captivity after her abduction along with 110 schoolgirls aged 11 to 19 from a school in Dapchi, Yobe State. The terrorists had returned to remaining girls to the town after negotiations with the Federal Government, with the exception of Leah, on account of her religion. But reacting, a number of female clerics while expressing their delight at Aliyu’s release, however, called on government to also make the same effort in securing the freedom of Sharibu and other Nigerians still being held hostage. According to Evangelist Mabel Ayeni, President Rehoboth Charity Missions, Ibadan, Oyo State: “The matured way our government reacted speedily and swiftly to the case of our daughter, Aliyu. It’s a good, kind and nice development. The issue was promptly acted on. It was well handled. “We are trusting God that officers in the Ministry/Department of Foreign Affairs will continue in this civilized and compassionate manner in future. “However, I know that the government must have made several attempts to secure the release of all the Chibok Girls and especially the most controversial, Leah Sharibu. “I like to appeal that the case of our dearly beloved daughter (Leah Sharibu) should be revisited. Also I will like to suggest that if it is not too risky, government should be ready to go into reasonable compromise here and there with the terrorists to get the release of all these innocent girls.” On her part, Bishop Bola Odeleke, founder of Power Pentecostal Church, urged President Buhari to do everything possible to rescue Leah Sharibu from the hands of her abductors. The first female Bishop in Africa said: “I pray that the girl (Sharibu) is still alive, we are praying that God will keep her and bring her back safely. To our leaders if it is ‘buying’ they have been ‘buying’ other kidnapped girls then they should also buy Leah and bring her back to us. “Our leaders as parents should put themselves in the shoes of Leah’s parents and rise up to stop further occurrence because whatever they do, posterity will remember them for it.” For Mrs Bose Ironsi, founder, Women’s Rights and Health Projects, Zainab is just lucky to be alive and her issues actually opened up a can of worms on how bad some Nigerians can go to acquire wealth. “I am not going to join people to bring religious coloration into this issue, but it shows that if our people and government are prepared to go the extra mile they can achieve results. So on that fact government should revisit the case of Leah and other people that are in castrations. It is the primary responsibility of government to protect her citizens wherever they maybe, so nothing unusual has happened in this case, but we commend them for acting swiftly to rescue her.” Speaking further she said: “We cannot continue to bring religious and ethnic coloration to everything that happens in this country!”