Dr. Omasanjuwa Edun is the Lagos State team lead for the Nigerian Urban Reproductive Health Initiative (NURHI). In this interview, he discusses the effective management of side effects arising from using some family planning methods, how to address cultural and religious barriers to family planning, the importance of awareness and education that could empower women in making informed choice on the birth control methods to adopt, among others. He spoke with APPOLONIA ADEYEMI  Many people still reject family planning (FP) based on claims that it is not suitable to the body. What’s your take on side effects from Family Planning?
Like we always say, there is no family planning (FP) without side effects. Just like any other drug, even paracetamol has side effects, but then, what are the benefit of adopting family planning? Does its benefits outweigh its side effects? Let’s not forget that each of these side effects has ways that it can be managed. For instance, what we advice people to do is: if you take up a method that is not suitable for you, you have the option of going back and care providers will access the situation.
If we find out that it is really not good for you, we can change the method for you and give another method that is most suitable for your body. So, it’s not compulsory that you must stick to a particular method that your body cannot tolerate.
What you need to do is take it out or change the method and if the side effects are mild or moderate, we have various means by which we can manage these side effects. We have drugs that we can use to manage these side effects. After a while, it becomes normal. Some side effects that users experience overtime will disappear on their own without having to take anything. But the thing is, we need to educate these women to expect these side effects, which are not a threat to life, but when it gets to a point where it becomes intolerable, then instead of having to complicate it with going to a somebody who is not trained, they should go back to the service provider that gave them the family planning service in the first place or go to a trained service provider that is closest to them to report the case so they can be treated and and the problem addressed properly. Some hinderances against family planning is entrenched in culture. How do you convince people in this group that using family planning is good?
Like you rightly said, some of the barriers against family planning are cultural, which is basically that some people or some school of thoughts believe that our culture is against family planning. Some religious cultures, for instance claim that: “God is the one that gives and God is the one that takes”. Based on this school of thought, the believe is that we should not play God by using family planning.
However, we need to understand that part of our culture is bringing up responsible children. To this end, we should not confuse number of children with quality of children that we bring into this world.
In as much as we want to give birth to children, the real advice in family planning is that we should be looking at bringing in children into these world that we can take care of responsibly in such a way that when these children grow up, they are responsible enough to take care of us in the future. So, we have come to realize that some of the things we call culture are actually unfounded.
For instance, if you hear people saying, “You need to give birth to all of the children that God has destined you to produce.” What this means is that you should keep on having children as much as you can, but looking at it critically, we should understand that it doesn’t work that way because we cannot give birth to all the children in our womb. You are aware that a woman has millions and millions of eggs and it is practically impossible to have one give birth to all the children, I mean all the eggs that her tummy/womb reproduces. We know that culture is information that have been passed down from generation to generation, but you should also understand that it might not necessarily be true.
On the contrary, what we should ask always ask is: what value are these children going to bring to these families? Are we having children for the sake of having children? Or we are having children we are going to make provisions for, and provide them with qualification, livelihood and wellbeing, in such a way that when these children grow up, they are responsible and they can take care of us in our old age?
Gone are the times when we needed a large family to cultivate our land. We are now in a modern age where number of children does not necessarily determine the strength of a family. In any case, you will find out that the more children you have, the higher the tendency of your potential to remain in poverty if you are in poverty.
Consequently, we must realize that time is changing and the environment which we live in is also changing. We also have to change as individuals and our culture also has to change. We ought to realize that culture is dynamic and culture changes, and we need to move with the times to be able to realize that family planning is something that we need to embrace. Our culture has to change. So, we need to start educating the community that we need to start thinking proactively and progressively. If you are going to give birth to children that you cannot take care of, it is going to be detrimental to you as a person and a man. Culture is good and I believe that we should hold on to our culture, but we also need to realize that there are some cultures that needs to be changed because times are changing. The Catholic Church is known to advocate the use of the Billing’s method of family planning only for its members. Beyond this natural method, should citizens be exposed to other family planning techniques?
There is nothing wrong with the Billing’s method of family planning. The Billings method of birth control is a type of natural family planning which uses the evaluation of cervical mucus to predict ovulation. This, and other fertility awareness method of birth control can be used both to help prevent pregnancy and to predict ovulation when a woman wishes to conceive. What we are encouraged to tell people is that family planning is about uniformed choice and it is entirely voluntary.
The Catholic group should give its members or congregation the option to choose what they, as individuals decide is best for them.
On the contrary, the church should create the opportunity for members to choose whatever family planning method they want.
The church can promote a particular method which it believes is most efficient or effective, but limiting their members to just that method without actually informing them that there are other methods is not really a good idea.
It can promote a particular one because, probably that is actually what that church stands for, but also, it should also them the option of whatever methods that are available.
Every woman at one stage in her life should plan her family through whatever means, whether natural or modern method.
Whatever means you want to plan your family with, be it abstinence or however you want to do it should be adopted, meaning that citizens should practice family planning because, in the absence of family planning, the consequences are grave.