The Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) taking place in Egypt between June 21 and July 19 promises to be interesting. There are two crucial changes that could affect the overall impact of the competition at global stage. For the first time, the competition is taking place between June and July rather than the usual January/February date. The Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) took this decision to enable African stars to feature freely without having a clash of interest with their respective clubs. Summer is off season for players in Europe and most parts of the world and so we expect the very best from the players. However, because of the short period between the end of season and the kick-off of AFCON, we urge the Super Eagles players to manage their time well with their short holiday and display high level of discipline by keeping themselves in shape and report to camp early. However, as the European season draws to a close with the UEFA Champions League final billed for Madrid on June 1, between Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspurs, it is important to learn from this amazing season. A youthful Ajax team surprised the world by eliminating three-time back-to-back champions, Real Madrid and also went further to beat highly-rated Juventus in the quarterfinals. We recall that also this season in the UEFA Champions League, Manchester United lost 2-0 to Paris Saint German at the Old Trafford. The Red Devils were believed to be out, but they travelled to France and recorded a 3-1 win to book a ticket to the quarterfinals. Nobody saw that coming. Last week at Anfield, Liverpool filled out against Barcelona without their top two players – Muhammed Salah and Roberto Fimino – cancelled a 3-0 first leg deficit to win 4-0 on the night and 4-3 on aggregates. Nobody expected that Barca with Lionel Messi, Luis Suarez, Coutinho and a host of others will not be able to score at least one goal. It is instructive that Salah wore a Tshirt with inscription ‘Never give up’ and that aptly sums up the epic encounter, which will for long be in the memories of football fans all over the world. Nigerian footballers and athletes generally should follow the comeback trend this year and also go down the memory lane in team and individual sports to see how athletes and teams displayed intense tenacity to rise above adversity and recapture their glorious moments in their respective disciplines. We make bold to say it is never over until it’s over. Liv-erpool gave the world something to cheer and think about for long, especially because of the pedigree of the opposing team and players of Barca. No doubt, impossible is nothing. Nigerians will always remember the Saudi ’89 U-20 team, the Flying Eagles, under the tutelage of Coach Tunde Disu. The team was down 4-0, but went ahead to level score at 4-4. In the shootout, Nigeria won the match to book a final ticket. At the Atlanta Olympics football event, the country’s U-23 team was 3-1 down in the semifinals, but went ahead to equalize 3-3 and courtesy of the magical Nwankwo Kanu, the team scored a golden goal in the extra time to win 4-3. Kanu scored the equalizer and winning goal. In Egypt, we believe the ‘spirit of the comebacks’ we witnessed in Europe this season will propel many teams to achieve the seemingly impossible feats at AFCON. For the Eagles, it will manifest in two fronts. We charge the Nigerian team to learn from the surprises in Europe to contend with top teams in the continent. Playing against teams like Egypt, Morocco, Senegal and Ghana will be a tough call and the Eagles must be at their best to get the expected result. On the other hand, playing against the lesser teams, the Eagles must not underrate them, because every team will be using the European surprises to boost themselves to play games at AFCON. Eagles are drawn against Guinea, Burundi and Madagascar in the Egypt 2019 prelims. Apart from Guinea, the two others are coming to the Nations Cup for the first time. Burundi and Madagascar are the dangerous teams in the group, because they have nothing to lose and will be all out to enjoy themselves. Such teams are so difficult to contend with. They can play the Super Eagles with inspiration of what Ajax did in Europe and how various surprises were recorded within 90 minutes in the UEFA Champions League. We charge Eagles to beware of the two first timers because there are no minnows again in modern football. Burundi and Madagascar will fancy their chances and so Eagles must be ready for a stiff challenge. Eagles’ manager, Gernot Rohr, will have to prepare his team well and guide against the ‘spirit of comebacks’ from the lesser teams, while he uses the same inspiration to contend with other top favourites in the competition. We strongly believe the Eagles are also favourites in the competition, but we want the team to learn from the feats achieved by Liverpool and Spurs to earn final berths in Europe.