OKEY MADUFORO writes on the torrent of support for the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, by his people as the row between him and organised labour deepens  The appointment of a former governor of Anambra State, Senator Chris Ngige, four years age as Minister of Labour and Employment was viewed by the people of the South-East geopolitical zone as a minus in the country’s power sharing arrangement.  Being a medical doctor, it was expected that Ngige would at least head the Health Ministry. To most people in the zone, Ngige’s appointment then was also seen as calculated attempt at sending the former governor to a difficult terrain, where he would continue to navigate in troubled waters of labour related controversies and ultimately make a villain out of him.  On two occasions, Ngige had been stoned with pure water by Nigerian workers over the Federal Government’s position on the welfare of workers and allegations were unlimited that President Muhammadu Buhari deliberately planted him to frustrate the workers.  However, the Federal Government’s recent approval of the N30,000 minimum wage for public servants, apparently, became some kind of respite for the minister, who must have rolled out his festive drums in celebration for midwifing a new minimum wage for Nigerian workers.  But, the carnival of festive drums could not last up to two months before labour leaders led by the president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, came calling. Wabba and his members vowed to get at Ngige over his refusal to inaugurate the National Social Insurance Trust Fund the (NSITF), which was believed to be headed by a veteran labour leader, Chief Frank Kokori.  Wabba accused Ngige of highhandedness and disregard for the welfare of the Nigerian workers, hence announcing that labour has declared war on the minister and his family members and that wherever they are found, they would be picketed.  The NLC president, indeed, made bold his treat, when he led other labour leaders and a group of protesters last Wednesday to barricade Ngige’s residence in Asokoro area of the Federal Capital City, Abuja for not inaugurating the NSITF board.  As it turned out, hell was let loose during the protest, leaving scores of casualties. But, soon after the incident, Wabba renewed labour’s position against Ngige, insisting that it will carry out a mass protest against minister until he is removed.  But, the embattled Labour minister told reporters in Abuja that he cannot be intimidated by the actions of the labour leader, even as he stood his ground that Kokori’s appointment cannot fly.  The siege to Ngige’s resident, however, has painted a different picture from the routine labour-government showdown. It has rekindled age-long ethnic politics between Nigerian nationalities. Speaking shortly after its meeting in Awka, Anambra State capital at the weekend, spokesman of Idemili Patriotic Forum (Ngige’s kinsmen), Mr. Sylvester Okoye, said the attack on their brother was carried out because he is an Igbo man. His words: “We the people of Idemili Patriotic Forum has been watching the avalanche of attacks on our brother since he became a minister of the Federal Republic and what he has passed through in the hands of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) led by Ayuba Wabba .  “We are also aware of the campaign of calumny and name dropping against our brother in the discharge of his duties and this is a prelude towards eliminating our brother. Be it known today that the life of our brother, Senator Chris Ngige, is in the hands of the president of the Nigerian Labour Congress, Mr. Wabba.”  Okoye noted that for Wabba to have led a group to storm the resident of Ngige is a clear indication that he wants the minister dead. He, therefore, called on President Buhari and the Inspection General of Police to take immediate action on the attcak on their brother.  He also observed that the attack on Ngige is because he is an Igbo man contending that the body will no longer tolerate any further attempt on the life of the minister.  He said: “We see sectional colouration in the brand of unionism being displayed by the leadership of the NLC because Ngige is an Igbo man. If it was not so; why would they attack his house?”  Okoye noted that the minister is under the employment of the presidency with the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF) as the clearing house, adding that the labour union should have channeled its protest to the appropriate quarters instead of making attempt on the life of the minister.  Similarly, in defence of Ngige, the Abuja chapter of Ohanaeze Ndigbo said though the apex Igbo body did not support the minister’s political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the recent general elections, Ngige remains a true son and ambassador of Ndigbo. The group added that Ohanaeze as a body is battle ready to defend one of its own.  The body took a swipe on the attack on Ngige by the labour leaders, accusing Wabba of misplaced aggression. It also declared that it would no longer take kindly, the anti-Igbo positions of Wabba.  While it was the kindred spirit for Ngige by his kinsmen, what seems a vindication for him came through a statement from the Special Adviser (Media) to President Buhari, Mr. Femi Adesina, which announced that Kokori is not going to head the NSITF, but has been appointed the chairman, Michael Imoudu National Institute for Labour Studies (MINILS), and which has been approved by the Minister of Labour and Employment. The statement read in part: “Following the disagreement between the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment and the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) over the appointment of the chairman of the board of the NSITF, the presidency wishes to clarify as follows.  “That the NSITF is a hundred percent, Federal Government of Nigeria-owned insurance parastatal under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, designed for the role of insuring workers (employees) in the public and private sectors. The organisation is empowered by law to implement the Employee Compensation Act (ECA) 2010 with mandate to insure workers and pay them compensation for accidents, deaths and injuries in the course of works.  “That the NSITF was bedeviled and riddled with corruption between 2012 and 2015, which resulted in a colossal loss and mismanagement of about N48 billion out of the total N62 billion contributions during the said period. These were contribution by the employers – viz government and the private sector for payment of compensation to workers and even to employers for loss of man-hours by their workers. The fraud has been investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the last chairman and some members of the former board and some officials of the NSITF are presently being prosecuted by the EFCC.  “That all actions taken by the minister towards the resuscitation and repositioning of the agency including the suspension of the inauguration of the board in 2018, were part of the special work plan approved for Ngige by Buhari.”  While many were of the view that But, as the dust over the appointment of the chairman of NSITF is expected to settle given the explanation by the presidency, political and labour watchers were taken aback, when Wabba urged the Federal Government to set up a probe panel over alleged employment of 300 persons by Ngige in the last four years, which according to the NLC president, did not follow due process.  First Republic Minister for Aviation, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, who dismissed Wabba’s claim, noted that it was too pedestal on the part of the labour leader.  “The young man’s recent demand goes to show where he is coming from and how Nigerians see Ndigbo in positions of authority. He is asking about the manner people were employed, but while the employments were being carried out, the labour leaders were aware of those actions and said nothing about it,” he said.  A former governor of Anambra State, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife, on his part, told New Telegraph that he has been vindicated that the tripod of Igbo-Hausa and Yoruba is further being challenged by the actions of labour leaders against Ngige.  He said: “Now, it is no more NSITF, it is employment of workers and I ask: When in the history of labour struggle has NLC challenged the lopsided employments and promotions of workers in Nigeria?”  However, it is the view of some labour watchers that the face-off between Ngige and Wabba may be the handiwork of a fifth columnist, which is out to compel President Buhari to drop Ngige from the next cabinet.  Those who hold this view reasoned that some sections of the country may have observed the strategic nature of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, hence nominees from a certain part of Nigeria should not be allowed to head the ministry.  While nothing could be ruled out in politics, how true this assumption is and whether the permutation will play out, would be determined by developments in the days ahead.