The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it does not warehouse ballot papers and other election materials at its headquarters. This is just as the commission advised senior lawyers engaged in the election petitions to stop sending junior lawyers to its headquarters to collect or process documents as regards election materials. INEC National Commissioner in charge of Voter Education and Publicity, Mr. Festus Okoye, who spoke yesterday in Abuja said election materials used in the conduct of the elections were kept either in the various local government offices or at various offices of the commission. “The headquarters does not warehouse election materials. “What happens is that when parties who are in the election petition process apply to the court for the inspection of the materials or for the photocopy of materials, those court orders are served on us. “It is now the responsibility of the commission to direct the appropriate local government or appropriate state to release those documents to the lawyers who are engaged in the election petition process. “Sometimes, senior lawyers send junior lawyers, who know next to nothing about election petition, drop the letters in the national headquarters here and ask for documents that ordinarily are not supposed to be here. “And when we don’t give them those documents, they just walk across the gate and address a press conference, claiming that the commission has refused to obey court order. “I believe that senior lawyers should be very careful in the way they make some comments, and when they are sending people to collect documents or process documents, they should send lawyers who understand election petition process and how the system works,” Okoye advised. He appealed to senior lawyers who are representing both the petitioners and respondents to be circumspect, especially on issues concerning their dealings with INEC. Okoye assured that the commission was committed to giving all the political parties that are in the election petition process whatever document they want.