  RESULTS With the release of the 2019 UTME last Saturday, candidates, parents and CBT Centre owners have been fingered in the level of cheating characterising the yearly examination. But JAMB has promised to sanitise the system   The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) on Saturday released the results of the 2019 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), held on April 17, ending speculations and anxiety of candidates and their parents over non-release of the results. But, against the backdrop that this year’s results were not released like the previous examinations 24 hours after the conduct, the Board explained that the delay was to avail JAMB to screen the entire candidates’ results in order to weed out those who were involved in any form of malpractice during the examination. Despite, the candidates and other stakeholders have lashed out at JAMB, condemning the examination body, conducting the yearly qualifying examination into the nation’s higher institutions (universities, polytechnics/monotechnics and colleges of education) for what they described as undue delay in releasing the results. According to them, it was unnecessary for JAMB to delay the release of the results for almost one month, especially when the Board has put in place technology and strategies to detect fraud and error in the examination. But, the Chief Executive Officer/ Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, while releasing the results in Abuja, however, explained that though the Board in 2018, promised that “the results of 2019 UTME would not be released until the Board subjects the procedures to some scrutiny with a view to ascertaining the degree of success of the structures, infrastructure, policies and processes put in place to checkmate the rot in the system.” He, therefore, reiterated the commitment of JAMB to ensuring that the admission process, from the UTME registration is open, free, transparent and malpractice-free. On the rumour that JAMB has rescheduled the UTME as being orchestrated in some quarters, the examination body has debunked such insinuation, saying: “All candidates are advised to rely only on information issued by the Board through its official platforms as JAMB has not rescheduled the examinations.” Meanwhile, many candidates and parents, who checked their results on Sunday through the mobile phones used for the UTME registration by texting RESULT to 55019, complained that no result was shown, except that of 2018 that was uploaded. The Registrar had urged candidates to check their results through the mobile phones used for the UTME registration by texting RESULT to 55019 between now and Wednesday, but warned candidates not to approach any Computer Based Test (CBT) centre or cyber cafe until they check and know their real results through the registered mobile phone. But, beyond the grandiose of the release of the UTME results, Oloyede lamented the high level of malpractice in the 2019 examination, perpetrated by the candidates, parents, CBT centre owners and mercenaries hired to write the examination for candidates. While insisting that the administration of UTME is a collective effort and crucial national assignment involving all and sundry, he wondered that “no doubt, examination malpractice is a cankerworm that has eaten deeply not only into Nigeria, but also the rest of the world, especially the developed countries such as the United States of America and the United Kingdom.” The Registrar, who regretted the role of some parents in aiding and abetting cheating in the examination, expressed worry that examination malpractice in Nigeria was being exacerbated by the insatiable greed and desperate antics of many parents, who are hell-bent on inducting their innocent and not-so-innocent children into the world of sharp practices and corruption. Towards this end, Oloyede sought the cooperation of all stakeholders to rid the system of corrupt and all forms of sharp practices, saying: “We need the cooperation of all Nigerians to sanitise the system and ensure that not only do we do thing right, but to also do right things. According to him, the circumstances made it difficult for JAMB in 2017 to adopt the international best practice of pre-release clinical scrutiny of the results of the examination, especially when one is aware of how endemic the rot had been since the period of the ‘paper and pencil test’ till the Computer-Based-Test (CBT) was recently introduced. Oloyede, however, reiterated that the 2017 and 2018 UTME results were released almost within 24 hours of each examination session to convince stakeholders that the expeditious release of CBT results was not beyond the capacity of the examination body. Piqued by the candidates’ involvement in cheating in this year’s examination, he regretted that the menace of malpractice could still not be stamped out partly because of the fact that out of 702 CBT centres used for the examination across the country, only 16 are owned by JAMB, while 223 are owned by public institutions. “The largest percentage of these CBT centres is owned by private individuals, who can be regarded as genuine contributors, while a few has inimical vested interests which may be at variance with those of the Board or the nation,” Oloyede further explained. As part of moves to sanitise the examination system, the Registrar said a total of 116 CBT centres had in 2019 exercise been either delisted or suspended, out which 18 were suspended for between one and three years for registrationrelated misconduct by the Governing Board of JAMB. Oloyede, who also said that no fewer than 100 persons were arrested and would soon be charged to court for impersonation and for writing examination for candidates, however, wondered that against the backdrop of the high level of cheating recorded in the examination, a cluster of fraudsters went to the extent of forging the Registrar’s signature, writing fictitious petitions, threatening the government through JAMB that heavens would fall except certain rules were relaxed and engaging in other unbecoming conduct to pressurise the Board to capitulate their desires. He lamented: “Despite our knowledge of the decay that permeates the system, we must confess that we are surprised by the intensity of our findings. The capacity of the syndicate and their modus operandi were beyond our imagination. Some of the structures put in place were tested to their limits, assisted by propaganda and paid agents of multi-dimensional groups. Empty lies were fabricated and made to appear in solid forms in order to achieve some inglorious ends. “Recent pranks by fraudsters include sending invitations to candidates for rescheduled examinations. The obvious fact that the Board is closing all their identified gates of illicit income have made them become so desperate to the extent of forging my signature and issue press releases in the name of the Board.” Piqued by the antics of the fraudsters, Oloyede listed some of the strategies deployed to compromise the integrity of the examination to include multiple registration, saying many candidates despised JAMB’s warning by engaging in multiple registration as many as 23 times for a single examination as recorded, which was carried out with the active connivance of some CBT centre owners who allowed themselves to be infiltrated by those who parade themselves as owners of tutorial classes. He blamed the development mostly on owners of some private school, saying: “Unfortunately, some elite institutions that charge exorbitant fees, which they had made the parents part with in the name of secondary education, became active in the procurement of ‘best results’ for their students at all costs. These characters have permeated the system such that it is Herculean to confront and dislodge them.” To curtail this, he noted that JAMB introduced a short code in the 2018 UTME, where every candidate typed his or her name and sends to a code on the particular phone, insisting that despite, this did not reduce the menace of multiple registrations. According to him, another strategies deployed by the syndicates was to register more than one candidate who will all log into the examination hall and log out the legitimate owner who would now call for help as a result of not being able to access the questions. But, the Board this year, Oloyede hinted, had deployed appropriate technologies to detect not only the facial duplication of candidates, but also biometric multiplication. Therefore, he said the Board canceled those with multiple registrations and who wrote two or more examinations with identical finger prints. He said one of the strategies employed by the fraudsters was impersonation, wherein the 2019 UTME, JAMB was able to identify a large number of impersonators who have been writing UTME for candidates. Oloyede, who expressed regret that most of the tutorial masters specialised in recruiting such professional writers for the candidates, cited Anambra State, where two CBT centres registered a large number of impersonating candidates, saying the results of the candidates had been cancelled and the CBT centres already delisted. For instance, he noted that JAMB recorded two examples in Aminu Saleh College of Education, Azare, where someone’s finger(s) was discovered in 42 person’s registration and at Bauchi State University, Gadau, where one person’s is traced to the registration of 64 candidates with a view to allowing any of the finger- contributing impersonators to access the examination hall. “Another example was in Borno State, where in Nassara Computer Academy Maiduguri, 233 candidates had one particular finger included in each of their biometric registration. We have made representative arrests through a Special Task Force of the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB) set up by the Inspector General of Police, which assisted tremendously in tracking the offenders. Other forms or strategies to perpetrate cheating in the UTME, is the disconnection of cables and power sources by some candidates with a view to claiming disruption and in the process allow mercenaries to execute their pre-planned agenda. “This is not to claim that there were no genuine cases of technical hitches in which cases prompt action of rescheduling was taken, there was a case of a purported fire outbreak in one Abuja CBT centre which did not burn a single ceiling made of cardboard. While scrutinising the place, there was a so-called professor, who presented himself as a JAMB official in order to gain entrance into the examination centre to do a hatchet job because his daughter was writing the examination in the centre,” Oloyede hinted. While adding that the other strategy for cheating is manipulation of biometrics, he noted that JAMB introduced biometric finger capturing in order to safeguard the integrity of the process, but attributed most of the problems that arose in this process to self-inflicted by candidates who registered at unauthorised centres. Besides, the Registrar said JAMB recorded cases of collusion of some private CBT Centres with parents to engage in examination malpractice by taking screen shots of the questions and selling them to tutorial centres. “These tutorials sell these questions to gullible parents and candidates without knowing that JAMB doesn’t repeat questions,” he stressed, saying a syndicate of close centres conniving to perpetrate malpractice had also been discovered. While not being aware that JAMB was monitoring them, Oloyede said the two centres in Akokwe in Ideato examination town paid N1,760,000 to compromise the staff on duty, insisting that the staff concerned were being investigated to determine their culpability. Giving the reasons behind the deliberate delay in releasing this year’s results as part of doing the right things, Oloyede urged all Nigerians to do the right things at all times Meanwhile, giving the breakdown of the results, Oloyede said of the 1,826,839 candidates that sat for the examination, JAMB released the results of 1,792,719 candidates, while it withheld the results of 34,120 candidates for further screening. The pack for the 2019 UTME was led by a 15-year-old Ezenala Ekene Franklin, from Imo State, with 347 marks, which is the highest by the Board, followed by 16-year-old Igban Chidiebube from Abia State, who scored 346 marks, and a 17-year-old, Isaac Olamilekan from Osun State, with 345 marks. A further break down of the results indicated that 2,906 candidates scored above 300 marks, while about 57,579 candidates scored between 250 and 299 marks, and a total of 366,757 candidates scored between 200 and 249 marks, and 361,718 candidates scored between 180 and 199 marks. However, Oloyede has raised concerned that Ezenala, given his age and choice of university, might not be admitted by the University of Lagos (UNILAG) because of his age, as the university given its admission policy would not admit any candidate, who is underage.