Nollywood actor, Chris Iheuwa, is known to use his baritone voice to arrest attention and melt emotions. He speaks several Nigerian languages. He is known for his stellar performance in movies such as Rattle Snake, Phone Swap. In this interview with EDWIN USOBOH, the University of Ibadan- trained thespian talks about mediocrity in the industry, career and what would make him turn down a script   How did you get into acting? I was fortunate enough to see some plays on stage for Festac ’77 at the National Art Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos, my parents took me there to watch. And I love a couple of presentations that were done: ‘Ipitombi’ by the South Africans, and of course the University of Ibadan presentation of ‘Lamgbodo’ and the musical drama by Larry Williams, ‘If you want to marry a husband’. That sort of triggered the acting in me, so I got myself involved in acting from primary school, secondary school, and then I studied Theatre Art at the University. So I have a diploma at the University of Ibadan, degree at the University of Ibadan and my MA from the University of Lagos. I have been practicing since then and also got involved in other disciplines, but I have a way of finding myself back. I have a full-fledged film-making studio in Ikeja. That’s how I got involved in a nutshell. Looking back, any regret? Absolutely no! If there is any regret it’s the fact that I left acting for a while to venture into branding, population, marketing into other things aside theatre and movie making. I probably would have stuck to it much earlier. I would have churned out more by now. But I am okay where I am. Of all the movies you have acted in, which would you say has been your most challenging one? One of the most challenging is ‘Delivery Boy’. Delivery Boy is an Hausa movie done by a northerner. I speak Hausa but not very fluent. So, I had to go and learn Hausa to be able to take part in that movie, that’s one of the most challenging for me. Aside that, we have the beginning of movie making in Nigeria, where we had ‘Rattle Snake’ we had to learn how to use guns, weapons and so sometimes when we have to shoot, we shoot in some parts of Ikorodu and Enugu. And so when we come out to shoot and we see the police looking at us there is that fear that they are going to shoot us. Nollywood in Nigeria then was not as pronounced as it is now. We always shoot with our heart in our mouth. Every job is challenging to be honest with you because you have to bring in your thought to be able to project concept, policy that the producer or the director would want you to portray, and it is always challenging. Over the years Nollywood has evolved, if you have the opportunity to change anything in Nollywood today what would that be? Making sure the policy for making movies is structured, having people in every stage of making, marketing, distribution are knowledgeable about the business. If you need to direct a movie as a Nigerian, you need to fall into Directors Guild of Nigeria; if you want to be an actor as a Nigerian you must be a member of Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN); and if you want to be an editor you must be under the Society for Editor’s in Nigeria. If we have all this done we will have a policy guiding you in the industry. There are a lot of mediocrity moving into the process of movie making and related disciplines; and all this affects the product that is churned out year in year out. The fact that Nollywood is second to oil sector in Nigeria as at today, we need to ensure that it’s done properly, harmonised, disciplined in the acting business. Do you think the Nigeria government has done enough to support the creative industry? They have tried but they have not done enough. We have the Ministry of Communication, we have departments of Art and Culture and related department, ministries and agencies that should be involved in the regularisation of acting, directing and the entire art process in Nigeria, but you hardly see support from them; there is no financial support, no policy support, nothing. You can’t practice as a dentist if you are not a pharmacist, you cannot be an engineer if you are not a member of the body. It is the same thing we are saying here, if you are not a theatre trained person, you don’t have the prerequisite, you should not be in the process of movie making. In your career as an actor, have you had any course to reject a script? Plenty! It is either the film was not properly written or I feel there are some religious expressions that were not rightly captured in it. If one has to write you need proper research. That is why some sometime the medical field accuses us of portraying them in an amateur way. For some, either the script writers or a directors who do not research, they think for you to be a medical doctor in a move you have to have a stethoscope around your neck in your office, basically without a stethoscope you cannot determine if somebody is dead or alive and related health status and all the rest. I turn down script either because the script is not okay or has religious, political motivation that I do not find okay for me. I don’t think I am going to be involved in movies that talk about Nigeria in a negative way. When you watch American movies you’ll see their flag, stripe and stars everywhere and if you watch British movies you’ll see the way they portray their country. If you want to do a movie and you are not saying something nice about Nigeria I will not get involved in it. Aside acting, are you involved in other aspects of movie making? I direct, and I am involved in editing, although I hated it. I spent some time with NTA sometime ago. I had a lady then who used to edit and then it was analog, being manual or automatic, I don’t like it cause you have to spend days and nights in editing in studio, which I don’t want to get involved in at the time. Apart from acting, directing and producing, which I do all three, I am also involved in editing and script writing now. The movie ‘Joba’ where you acted as a pastor, when you saw the script what was the first thing that hit your mind? I knew it was going to be challenging because it was a faith-based script. So, I was thinking, I am going to bring out the message, because most people might not understand, appreciate it. It is one thing to have a script, it is another to interpret it movie wise. I knew there is a lot of work to be done and that work was done. I also know we had great actors on set like Blossom, Enado who I had so much trust in that they were ready to roll. Your role in ‘Phone Swap’ by Kunle Afolayan, how were you able to act the ‘Igbo’ money miss road despite you are well refined? Lolz… it is acting. Like I said, I studied Theatre Art and I have been involved in this over the years. There is what we call characterisation and all the rest; you need to act and assume yourself in the role and character of the person you are imitating that happen in ‘Phone Swap’. Some people feel I am an Hausa because I have acted Hausa movie before, but I am an Igbo man. I have also acted in a couple of Yoruba movies. What would you say has changed in Nollywood over the years? A lot has improved from where we started Nollywood. Today we have smaller camera, the lightening, video visual etc are better today. It is not just coincidence; it is a result of individual you have invested into the industry, making sure Nollywood remains relevant. What is your advice for upcoming actors and actress in the industry? They need to be dedicated, patient and study the industry. It is not enough for you to just want to act; you need to research and know what every role entails.