Felix Nwaneri reports on how the table turned against the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Okigwe South Federal Constituency of Imo State, Chike Okafor, whose bid to return the House of Representatives for a second term has been dashed by his Accord Party counterpart, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba  Hon. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, the candidate of Accord Party for Okigwe South Federal Constituency seat in the recent general elections was right, countless others were wrong.  Political pundits, who said the man popularly known as HCN will not return to the seat he vacated 16 years ago; members of the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) – a party he helped midwifed, especially the camp of the incumbent member representing the constituency, Chike Okafor, who mocked him and analysts, who dismissed his bid, failed to understand the depth of his political experience.  But, Nwajiuba, who left the APC ahead of the general elections for Accord Party, following internal wrangling that brought the ruling party to its knees in Imo State, stuck to a plan that has worked to perfection despite a bitter and divisive campaign that pitched former political allies against each other, and is on his way to the Green Chamber.  He served as chairman, House Committee on Land, Housing and Works between 1999 and 2003 before contesting governorship elections in 2003, 2007 and 2011. He was also secretary of the Constitution Drafting Committee that produced the constitution of the merger committee to form APC in 2013.  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had on March 24, declared Okafor as winner of the election though the announcement was two weeks after the electoral umpire conducted a supplementary election in the federal constituency on March 9 and abandoned the collation of results.  A winner did not emerge during the first ballot on February 23. But, announcing the results on March 24, the Returning Officer, Prof C.I Duruigbo, said that the APC candidate polled 23,815 votes to defeat his closest rival (Nwajiuba), who scored 21,454 votes.  The outcome of the poll, notwithstanding, Nwajiuba, who represented the constituency, which comprise Ehime Mbano, Ihitte/Uboma and Obowo local government areas between 1999 and 2003, never gave up as he relied on the judiciary, given its pronouncement before the poll.  A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, had two days to the election barred INEC from accepting or listing Okafor as the candidate of the APC. The court, presided by Justice Bello Kawu, declared as unconstitutional, illegal, null and void the primary election conducted by the party for the federal constituency.  The order was consequent of a suit filed by Mrs. Uzoma Chioma Mary Ann, against the APC and two others, which urged the court to declare the primary election conducted for the federal constituency as “unconstitutional, illegal, null, void and of no effect.”  Ironically, the defendants (Okafor and APC) did not show any appearance nor were they represented by counsels during hearing on the matter, a development the judge said “was admission to the averments.”  Justice Kawu, in his ruling held: “It is therefore my declaration that the final report of the Electoral Appeal Panel, which recommended the nomination and submission of the second defendant’s name as the House of Representatives candidate of the first defendant for Okigwe South Federal Constituency of Imo State, is inappropriate, unlawful, null and void for failure to comply with the first defendant’s guidelines for nomination of candidates.”  But, Okafor, who served as Commissioner for Finance in the state before his election to the House of Representatives, in his reaction then, not only said the court ruling did not affect his candidature, but boasted that he was the man to beat in the election.  He did not stop at that. He alleged that Nwajiuba plotted to assume the candidate of APC for Okigwe South through the back-door, but was stopped, hence his plot to destabilize party in the constituency.  Apparently, it was this “legal mine” that gave Nwajiuba, a lawyer, the confidence that he would have the last laugh. He headed to the court immediately Okafor as member-elect and got the reliefs he sought. And INEC in a swift reaction, on Monday, withdrew the Certificate of Return earlier issued to the APC candidate and presented a fresh one to Nwajiuba.  INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education, Festus Okoye, who presented the certificate to Nwajiuba, said the commission would always obey the orders of the court, denying claims in some quarters that the commission was selective in adhering to court orders.   This development, according to political analysts in the state, has proved that the Umuezela Nsu, Ehime Mbano born politician got his politics right.  As it stands, the twist in events has not only dashed Okafor’s hope of returning to the Green Chamber for a second term, but equally dimmed his aspiration of assuming the exalted position of speaker. His loss has also caused a decline in APC’s fortune in Imo State. The ruling party won two out the 10 federal constituency seats in the state, but with loss, now has only one – Isu/Njaba/Nkwere/Nwangele.  Okafor had said during his declaration for the speakership that “I have thrown my hat in the ring. I am running for the speakership of the 9th Assembly of the House of Representatives, and I have formally written to the national chairman and members of the National Working Committee of my party, the All Progressives Congress. “It needs no saying that the South-East, which was denied a leadership position in the ruling party’s leadership caucus of the 8th Assembly, deserves compensation in the 9th Assembly. And I am the appropriate vehicle for an equitable compensation to the South-East.”  Nwajiuba, on his part, becomes a man of history with his victory. He would be the first person to represent the constituency for more than a term in the current Fourth Republic. The constituency has witnessed five representatives since 1999. They are Nwajiuba (1999-2003), Francis Amadiegwu (2003-2007), Austin Nwachukwu (2007-2011), Chudi Uwazurike (2011-2015) and Okafor (2015-2019).  For some analysts, Okafor’s return to the House would have placed Imo State in a vantage position to clinch a principal office by the time the 9th National Assembly is inaugurated in June, but some members of a political school are of the view that the state could equally gain more, following Nwajiuba’s emergence.  The reason for this assumption, according to them, is that though Nwajiuba is of Accord Party unlike Okafor, it was circumstances that forced him to leave the ruling party and he could make a switch. They also pointed out that he also meets the ranking requirement for principal office.  Apparently thinking along this line, Nwajiuba, while receiving his Certificate or Return at INEC headquarters in Abuja, lent his voice to calls for the zoning of the House speakership to the South-East for national stability, inclusiveness and consolidation of the progress made by the ruling party in the zone during the 2019 general elections.  He thanked members of APC in the South-East for their support even when he had to contest the election on the platform of Accord Party due to the intractable crisis in the ruling party at the eve of the poll.  He explained that he did so because he believes that he has the experience and knowledge to bring great dividends of democracy to the people of the federal constituency and that throughout he has remained steadfast in his support for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Next Level agenda of APC.  His words: “APC made great progress in 2019 than in 2015 elections. So, zoning such a position to the region will enhance national stability, inclusiveness and consolidation of the APC in the South-East.”  No doubt, Nwajiuba’s triumph has altered the political equation in the Okigwe South Federal Constituency and Imo State, it has reechoed the words of a former United States senator, late Robert Kennedy that “each time a man stands up for an ideal, or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope, and crossing each other from a million different centres of energy and daring, those ripples build a current that can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and resistance.”