The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) will host its 5th Annual Forum — the largestannualgatheringof African entrepreneurs – on July 26 – 27, 2019. The two-day event willtakeplaceattheTranscorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja.  The forum is the culmination of the annual Tony Elumelu Foundation Entrepreneurship Programme, which this year mentored, trained and seeded over 3,000 young Africans, selected from over 216,000 applicants. The event provides a unique opportunity for young women and men, from all 54 African countries, to meet, learn and network with the broader African and global entrepreneurship ecosystem.  In a statement from the Foundation yesterday, it said that the forum was also a critical opportunity for political leaders and policy makers to meet, face to face, a new generation of African business leaders, who are transforming Africa’s economic trajectory.  The statement said that the keynote speakers at the Forum included His Excellency Paul Kagame, President of Rwanda, and His Excellency Macky Sall, President of Senegal, who will join Tony O. Elumelu, CON, TEF Founder and Chairman of Heirs Holdings and the United Bank for Africa (UBA) in an intimate open house discussion.  “The Presidential Convening is a highlight of the Forum, allowing the African entrepreneurs in attendance to closely engage with political leaders, to give first hand testimony of the important role government can play in catalysing growth and encouraging business ambition. The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) has announced October 25, 2018, as the date for its 4th annual TEF Entrepreneurship Forum to host President Nana Akufo-Addo, President of Ghana as well as President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya. The gathering of African entrepreneurs and the broader entrepreneurship ecosystem, according to a statement,… In “Business” The Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) has announced that it is now accepting applications for the 2019 cohort of the TEF Entrepreneurship Programme. In a press statement, the organisation said the programme is a 10-year, $100 million commitment to identify, train, mentor and fund 10,000 African entrepreneurs. According to the statement,… In “Business” SWIFT announced Sunday that Tony O. Elumelu (CON), African businessman and investor will deliver the closing address at the SWIFT African Regional Conference on 18 May 18 Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire. The conference will bring together around 500 high level financial professionals from across Africa. Elumelu, Chairman of United Bank… In “Business”