…as CP cautions policemen against extortion  Members of staff of Kwara State College of Education, Ilorin, yesterday protested an alleged non-payment of their six months’ salary arrears by the management of the institution. The workers staged a peaceful demonstration to Government House, Ilorin, to register their displeasure over the development.  However, Provost of the college, Dr. Yusuf AbdulRaheem, had blamed the nonpayment of the workers’ arrears on the non-receipt of subventions for six months from the state government, saying that the state government was owing the institution N252 million, being six months of unremitted subventions.  AbdulRaheem said paucity of funds occasioned by the non-release of subventions to the institution had incapacitateditfrommeeting its obligations to its workers. He said the management couldnolongermeetwiththe high demands of the college from its paltry internally generated revenue.  The provost described the staff protest as unfortunate, attributing it to the dwindling financial state of the college, which he said had made payments of salary arrears impossible. He appealed to the state government to declare a state of emergency in the education sector as a way of combating the problems in the sector. “The declaration of the state of emergency in the state education sector will bring extra budgetary allocation that will cater for all the problemsconfronting thesector,” he said.  Reacting to the workers protest, the state Commissioner for Tertiary Education, Ustaz Abdullahi Alikinla, said the state government was owing the College only four months subventions, totalling N202 million.  He attributed the state government’s indebtedness to the institution to the dwindling allocations from the federation account. Meanwhile, the Kwara State police command yesterday warned that it would arrest and prosecute any policeman caught extorting money from the public while bearing firearms with the offence of armed robbery. Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr. Kayode Egbetokun, gave the warning while briefing newsmen in Ilorin.  Egbetokun said all policemen in the command as well as those on patrol had been warned that extorting money from members of the public while bearing firearms completed the ingredients of the offence of armed robbery, explaining that while policemenhadtheresponsibilityof conducting stop and search, such should be done within the provisions of the law