Following series of complaints by importers and Customs agents, Nigerian Shippers’ Council has stepped in to ease their burden through cancellation of container deposit charges. BAYO AKOMOLAFE reports  In the last one decade, port users have been clamouring for cancellation of container deposit charges to lessen the cost of business at the port. Importers or customs agents pay the deposit before moving containers out of any terminal. The deposit also serves as guarantee that the operator would return the container in good condition. Findings revealed that importers deposit as much as N200, 000 per 40-foot container within Lagos and N400, 000 outside Lagos. Twenty-foot container deposit attracts N100, 000 within Lagos and N200, 000 outside Lagos. In addition, importers pay N170, 000 and N180, 000 as terminal charge including automatic demurrage of N100,000 and other charges from Customs and clearing agents. For some years, it has always been a serious hurdle getting refund for all the deposits paid on containers, while in most cases importers either get less than half of what had been paid as deposits or even lose the money out rightly due to various excuses advanced by foreign shipping agents. Resolution Worried by the impunity, NSC resolved to stop the container deposit fee. It was learnt that the decision by the council would not only ensure the success of Ease of Doing Business Policy of the Federal Government in the port industry but also will also reduce the cost of clearing goods and promote efficiency. The Executive Secretary of the council, Mr. Hassan Bello, said at a meeting with shipping companies in Lagos that criticism about container deposit fee had constituted about 80 per cent of the complaints received by the council. According to him, the whole idea of abolishing it is to create a balance in the course of doing business in the nation’s ports. Bello noted: “If you stifle a shipper, you will run him out of business; the council wants a situation, whereby you charge according to services rendered. “The return of container deposit takes a lot of time and most times importers forego these deposits. We want to ensure that shipping companies and terminal operators and other operators key into government initiative of the Ease of Doing Business in the ports, so that we can have very good rating by the World Bank and, therefore, attract investors to Nigeria.” Bello explained that some importers had lost monies through non-refund of the fee, adding that there was no reason for any payment of container deposit in the first place.  Pact The executive secretary also said that the council had concluded plans to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on port charges. He noted that the agreement was a highly sustainable mechanism in resolving disputes, noting that shippers had complained that the container deposit fee refund regime was harsh.The Managing Director of Grimaldi Shipping Line, operators of the Port Multi-Purpose Terminal Limited (PTML), Mr. Ascanio Russo, explained that Grimaldi and some shipping firms had been refunding container deposit within three or four days of the return of their containers. Russo also said that about 70 per cent of his clients had not been paying container deposit fee because they had proven credibility. However, representative of the Managing Director of Mearsk Line Shipping Company, Mr. Rasak Ngula, noted that its payment of container deposit refund was a smooth process. He explained that 96 per cent of its customers’ request was treated online. Already, the Secretary of Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria, Haulage Section, Mr Godwin Ikeji, said that with the abolition of the deposits, a lot of things would change for better for importers and other port users. According to him, his association has been advocating that the container deposit be abolished for years. He argued that if the deposit was abolished, shipping agents would be forced to go in search of their containers and unnecessary delay at the ports would be reduced.  Said Ikeji : “The container deposit puts a lot of pressure on businesses who rush to the ports to return empty containers with the hope of getting their deposits back. Most of the trucks lined up on Lagos roads are laden with empty containers and this is the reason for the gridlock.”  The Coordinator, Save Nigeria Freight Forwarders, Dr Osita Chukwu, who also spoke in support of the abolition of the deposit, said importers were losing N2billion weekly on container deposits.  Also, National President of the National Council of the Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Mr Lucky Eyis Amiwero, said that the decision by shippers’ council on the abolition of container deposit and the elongation of the free demurrage period was a right step in right direction.  He advised the council to pursue the abolition to a logical conclusion so that the port industry and the economy could reap the benefits.  He noted that foreign shipping agents operating in the country had been collecting the deposit out of impunity. Amiwero explained that if importers had paid all the freight components on goods to shipping companies abroad from where the cargoes were imported, then it was an aberration for the shipping agents of such foreign shipping lines to be demanding fresh charges.  Last line Abolition of container deposit will reduce cost of shipping in the country.