Following various on-going developments within the Lekki Free Trade Zone, the entire Ibeju-lekki is gradually turning to hub of real estate investment. Dayo Ayeyemi reports  When Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ) was launched and marketed to would-be prospective investors in 2004, little did the public know that the zone would soon become the biggest hub of investment opportunities, including real estate in Nigeria.
Fifteen years down the line, the zone, which has been designed to further enhance economic fortunes of Lagos State, is witnessing physical infrastructural development with $14billion Dangote Refinery dictating the pace.
As at the last count, according to findings, over 116 investors have registered with Lekki FTZ, out of which 16 have commenced full operations while another 100 have signified intention to situate their business within the axis.
Real estate firms are not left alone in the calculation, as they jostle for space in the corridor.
In the last five years, more than 200 real estate developers/investors have positioned themselves for investment opportunities in the enclave.
The rush by estate firms is paying off, as land value in Ibeju-lekki has increased by 500 per cent from N1million in 2014 to N6million in 2019, depending on closeness to Dangote Refinery.
Between 2018 and 2019, a space of one year, value of land in Ibeju-Lekki increased by 28 person.
“A year ago, the property worth N5 million has appreciated to N6.4 million, implying a 28 percent increase in value,” one of the developers said.
The developer, Almart Realtors, whose firm is marketing three estates in the corridor, attributed rapid development in LFTZ to the presence of Dangote Refinery with its huge potential for employment generation; $1.5 billion Lekki Deep Sea Port, new international airport, hotels, Orange Island and Pan African University, among others.
These, the developer said, were value drivers of the corridor.
Real estate opportunities abound in the three segments of the market in LFTZ – residential, commercial and industrial.
Managing Director, Almart Realtors, Mrs. Bukola Iluyomade, stated that for anyone looking Lagos’ direction for investment in real estate, Ibeju-Lekki remained the most viable right now.
She said: “That’s where you have the most room for expansion and fastest growth and value appreciation rate now. “The area keeps changing on a daily basis, the road is currently being dualized to accommodate the kind of vehicular demand also.”
“Keying in now and by mid/end of next year, I can assure you that you will get at least 100 per cent return on investment,” she said.
The expert described Ibeju-Lekki as a “commercial hub, residential area and tourist attraction centre in Lagos,” thus making it hot demand as regards to real estate development.
Besides, New Telegraph gathered that there were diverse investment opportunities in the area ranging from manufacturing, heavy industries, oil & gas, tourism and infrastructure development, among others.
Investigation has revealed that some real estate investors/ developers and speculators have been raising stake in land purchase in Ibeju-Lekki communities.
According to investigation, over 200 property firms, business owners and home seekers are jostling for space in the corridor, acquiring large expanse of lands.
Presently, the findings show that land prices in the location, which is between N1million and N6million, could double before 2020, when Dangote Refinery commeces operation and the ongoing Deep Sea Port project is completed.
Investigation further revealed that the some plots of land far to the industry’s location, which were selling between N250,000 and N600,000 five years ago are now selling for millions of naira.
Some of the estates in the zone include Gracia’s estate, Palm resort, Golden Alba, Brooklyn, Claridge, West Point, Havillah Cornerstone, Adron Homes, Alaro City by Rendeavour , Amen Estate, among others.
According to the President of Perfection Real Estate Investors’ Cooperative Society, Mr Niyi Adeyeye, in a report, the price of a plot of land for subscribers to his estate has increased to N6million from N1million five years ago.
Managing Director, M. I. Okoro an Associates, Chief Meckson Okoro, a estate surveyor and valuer, stated that people with investible income should rush to invest in Ibeju -Lekki.
Besides, he stated that government’s presence in the area of infrastructure provision and other facilities have been attracting people to the axis.
He narrated how the value of land in Lekki phase one jumped to N200million from N4million 30 years ago.
“The benefits of investing in LFTZ also extend to local and foreign industrialists and those jostling for infrastructure developments,” he said. Benefits of LFTZ
According to Chief Executive Officer, Redeavour, the developer of $250 million Alaro City, Lekki FTZ remained safe hub for both local and foreign investments.
The zone does not only target Nigerian market, but has easy access to neighbouring countries in West and Central Africa.
He chronicled incentives for investors, saying they were much appealing, as they are exempted from paying import duties on raw materials imported for production or excise duties for final product.
Another developer in the axis who craved anonymity, said: “For instance, investors are permitted to sell 100 per cent of manufactured, assembled or imported goods into the domestic Nigerian market and when selling, the amount of import duty on goods manufactured is computed on the basis of the value of raw material or components used in assembly, not on finished products.”
He said that locating estate development in LFTZ guaranteed swift returns on sale, pointing out that the zone has high demands for investment, as investors would not need to tie down money for a long period of time.
“With swift returns on sale in the area, investors can reinvest and make more money,” he said. Last line
With huge presence of development in the corridor, Lekki Free Trade Zone is set to open up the investment, business and tourism potential of Nigeria to the world.