The chairman of Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State Mr. Ibellogo Tor-Ityokaa has said at least 200 people in his domain were killed and property worth millions of naira destroyed allegedly by the Jukun militants following their repeated attacks on villages in the local government. Mr. Ibellogo Tor-Ityokaa disclosed this while addressing a news conference in Zaki-Biam. He stated further that villages worst hit by the attacks include: Tse- Ayali, Igbongom and Tse -Atsenga as well as Vaase, Namtaav and New City. The local government chairman accussed his Wukari Local Government counterpart of aiding and abetting the Jukun armed militia to launch mayhem on Tiv settlements. He expressed worry that after conserted peace efforts by his council and the Benue state government, the non-collaborative efforts by his Wukari counterpart was aggravating the situation. He maintained that more villages were still been attacked by the Jukun militia and their herdsmen collaborators. Mr. Ibellogo who identified politics as been the main reason for the crisis said, from available intelligence report, the Tivs in Taraba were been attacked owing to their refusal to vote Jukun candidates during the last general elections. “I think what is happening is well beyond an ordinary squabble as it is been reported. From intelligence, we have gathered that the Tivs especially those living in Wukari are been killed over issues that had to do with politics. “The Tiv people according to information available to me indicates are been hunted over their refusal to vote for Jukun candidates during the elections, and my counterpart from Wukari is actively involved in this acts of infamy”. Mr. Ibellogo equally accused Fulani insurgents of cashing-in on the fragile development to invade sacked Tiv villages with their cattle. “The Fulanis had been looking for an opportunity to invade our communities with their cattle and the crisis have provided for them an ample opportunity to carry out such. As we speak, over 5000 persons have been displaced as a result of this crisis which had placed on us a heavy burden” The local government chairman who appealed for calm called on the federal government to come to the aid of the displaced persons stressing that the situation had overstretched the resources of the council. He applauded the efforts so far made by the state government in supporting the IDPs as well as security againcies whom he said have also been of tremendous help in efforts towards ending the carnage. The Chairman of Ukum local government area of Benue state Hon. Tor-Tyokaa Ibellogo yesterday raised the alarm over continued killings and destruction of property in the area by Jukun militia. He disclosed that since the crisis broke up, no fewer than fifteen persons have been killed while properties worth millions… In “News” 90-year-old woman burnt   At least three Tiv people were killed as the Jukun militia at Kente in Wukari Local Government Area of Taraba State launched attack on Atsenga village in Ukum Local Government Area of Benue State.   In the attack, which started on Monday evening and ended yesterday… In “Metro and Crime” In this review, CEPHAS IORHEMEN looks at the relentless communal clashes between Jukuns and Tivs in Taraba and Benue states respectively and efforts to stop them   Like a festering wound, the continued dispute between the Tivs in Benue State and Jukuns in Taraba State has continued to fester, leaving… In “Politics”