The Plateau Specialist Hospital located in Jos, owned by the state government has now been upgraded having the same status as Jos University Teaching Hospital JUTH following the intervention of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye who donated some Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment worth over N70 million to the Specialist Hospital as a gesture in addressing some specific health challenges in the state.  It would be recalled that in January 2018, the Governor Simon Lalong administration in Plateau State had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Hospital Assist Nigeria Limited to improve services provided at the Plateau Specialist Hospital. One of the five policy thrusts of the Lalong-led administration is to provide qualitative health services to the people of the state.  However as part of the effort of the APC administration in the state aimed at upgrading the Specialist Hospital, the Hospital is now wearing a new look with all the structures, including offices, patients ward, mortuary, laboratories renovated and equipped. The hospital’s radiology department is also offering 24 hours services at an affordable rate to all citizens of the state.  While Commissioning and unveiling the life-saving equipment at the hospital recently, the General overseer of the RCCG Pastor Adeboye said it is the wish of Redeemed Christian Church of God for people to be saved from untimely death and to remain healthy to serve God.  “My prayer and desire for everyone is to accept Christ and serve him under healthy condition. The ICU equipment are to help the hospital in saving lives of people for them to serve God in truth and righteousness.”   The cleric took time to pray for patients in the hospital: “We ask that Your healing power will begin to operate here. In the entire hospital, this day will mark a turning point for the better and for those who work here, my Father and my God let it be well with them.  Take care of their families and let Your healing power flow through them. We unveil this plaque in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, God bless you,” he said. Saturday Telegraph gathered that during the unveiling of the ICU unit, hundreds of citizens trooped to the premises of the hospital, some to receive prayers from the Man of God over challenges, others just to see him for those who have never seen him physically as the rains averted stampede of crowd during the unveiling of the ICU unit. Governor Lalong Speaking during the unveiling, said the donation is the biggest private based intervention in the hospital in recent time, adding that the hospital is now better equipped to respond to emergency and save families from agony of deaths caused by poor medical attention.  “The action of the Redeemed Christian Church of God has inspired my administration to remain committed to a promise to replace obsolete equipment in the hospital as well as purchase new ones to meet the health need of the citizens,” he said Lalong who spoke through his deputy, Prof. Sunny Gwanle Tyoden, urged citizens in the country to partner with his administration in the realization of the vision of moving the state out of the shackles of poverty, diseases, injustice and corruption.  The Special Assistant to the General Overseer (Christian Social Responsibility) Pastor Idowu Iluyomade said the rationale behind the donation was part of the church’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), maintaining that it has become imperative for individuals and corporate organisations to assist the Nigerian government because the demands of the people, especially in terms of the provision of critical infrastructure, need everybody’s attention and involvement.  He said the intervention in the health sector is part of what the church is doing in meeting the needs of the less privileged in the society and also a way of trying to lessen the burden on persons with health challenges.  The Special Assistant to the General Overseer (Technical) who is also the pastor in charge of Region 8, Pastor Sunday Akande, said the ICU of Plateau Specialist Hospital Jos, named: “Enock and Folu Adeboye ICU Centre” is deliberate to attend to people from Plateau, Bauchi, Taraba, Gombe, Benue, Kaduna and Nasarawa States. He said the choice of Plateau State Specialist Hospital followed a thorough research carried out by RCCG Plateau State, adding that the location of the hospital is strategic and more central, making it accessible to people of Plateau State and neighbouring states. With the intervention there will be no more referral of patients from Plateau Specialist Hospital to Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) because of the quality of services from low treatment to high treatment level.  The Chief Medical Director of the Plateau Specialist Hospital Dr. Philemon Golwa in an interview with Saturday Telegraph in Jos said Pastor Adeboye is a Messiah to Plateau State.  “We Thank Pastor Enoch Adeboye and his wife for seeing it as social responsibility to contribute to the betterment of Plateau people and humanity”. “Anywhere in the world Intensive Care Unit is where the critical patients are placed under strict observation for the purpose of sustaining life “.  Dr. Golwa said the hospital used to normally refer ICU patients to JUTH, but now that they have ICU with ventilator there would be no more referral to JUTH, saying Plateau Specialist Hospital is already at the same level with JUTH. ” Plateau citizens should expect quality services as result of the revamping of the hospital as well as the donation of the ICU centre by the RCCG”.  According to him the hospital is now moving to the level of excellence in terms of patients care delivery. He disclosed that Lalong-led administration in the state is working hard to set up a heart cardiac centre where patients would be operated upon in the state.