Detectives attached to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, Lagos State Command, have arrested three people in connection with the hijacking and diversion of milk products worth N23 million. The suspects are Adesoji Olarewaju (43), Sunday Ejirille (52) and James Oja (45). They were tracked to Abia State where they were arrested and the goods recovered. It was learnt that the driver of the truck, Olarewaju John, was employed by a logistics company to transport the 30 tons of powdered milk from Lagos to Abuja but diverted it to unknown destination. After receiving petition on May 13 about the matter from the logistics company, the state Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, ordered decoy teams to investigate the matter and they traced the suspects to Abia State where the truck and goods were recovered. Oja confessed to journalists that members of the syndicate were aware that the products were stolen. The Police Commissioner, Muazu, who paraded the suspects at the command headquarters, Ikeja, told journalists that his men arrested them after a company reported a case of missing of 30 tons of powdered milk. He said: “The notorious criminals, who specialised in diverting and stealing companies’ goods, were arrested in Abia State and the goods recovered.” The alleged main suspect, Ejirille, denied being part of the diversion of the truck. Ejirille said he was arrested when he went to collect his money for the tyres he sold to the suspects. He said: “I sold some tyres to Emeka and he called me to come and collect the money for the tyres; that was when I was arrested by the police. I was not aware they were carrying stolen goods. I only sold tyres to them. “I didn’t know anything about the stolen milk; I only deal in tyres I bought from companies and from individuals. I always ensure I get receipts for purchases.” However, Oja said that Ejirille was aware of the stolen goods and that he was the one who invited him to where he was arrested. He said: “I was at home, when I got a call from Ejirille that I should help them get people to buy the goods. He was aware that the goods were stole. I was not part of the diversion.” The commissioner, however, said the suspects would be charged to court after completion of the investigation.