Fresh from the controversial primary elections of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) the party is set for its State Congresses and National Convention. One of the National Chairmanship aspirants Chief Jude Ezenwafor spoke to OKEY MADUFORO on the fortunes of the party and why the incumbent chairman must take a bow –excerpts  Why do you want to contest for the National Chairman of APGA? It is a clarion call from my fellow members and stakeholders of the party. Essentially members have been clamouring for a new blood and tonic to be injected into the party and in view of the fractionalization in the party, we now need a bridge builder that will bring all the factions under one canopy and all the gray areas arising from the party’s primary elections resolved before the next general election. Members and stakeholders are of the view that APGA needs a National Chairman that is at home with the politics of the party and they indeed demand a man who is well grounded in party matters as well as its challenges.  What makes you think that you are suitable for this? My track record of achievements in party politics can speak for me and I intend to leverage on it. I started as a PDP Youth Leader in the late nineties when the then governor Chinwoke Mbadinuju was in power and later became a personal aide to the former governor Dr. Chris Ngige. Later I became the State Chairman of the Labour Party (LP) in Anambra State and National Organising Secretary of the party. Because of the nature of the party I was drafted to become the Senior Special Assistant to the National Chairman of the Labour Party on Political Matters and Strategy. I was a counsel on Trade and Investment for St. Vincent and Grinadurens in Cambridge Island at some point and I can boast of strong political contacts and political linkages across political parties in Nigeria. At this time when the South East Geo-Political zone is gearing up for the 2023 Presidential Elections we need a National Chairman of APGA that has all that it takes to reach out to other political parties and their standard bearers across the six geopolitical zones to make this project of a president of Igbo extraction a reality.  But APGA has a lone ranger status being in control of only one state, Anambra how would that be possible? Yes! My agenda is to consolidate on what we have on ground and then expand to other states of the federation. The last election was an improvement. We have federal and state assembly seats in the North as well as in the West and South East and that is a good omen. But we cannot be dreaming of the presidency of Igbo extraction without having state governors at least in the South East and South South as well as in the National Assembly.  But the kind of protest that had trailed your party’s primary election subsists and we now have splinter groups? It is sad and unfortunate that some people who claim to be stakeholders of APGA used that opportunity to extort money from innocent party faithful in the name of giving       them party tickets for governorship, state and national assembly elections.
These people ruined the party and choose to sacrifice the party for their own personal aggrandizements. Whatever we achieved in the last general election was due to the caliber of the candidates that emerged in those constituencies and because they are on ground, majority of those who did not win was as a result of the manner the primaries were conducted which produced unpopular candidates and party members had to work against the party and the candidates. Yes you may call it anti-party activities which I do not subscribe to, but those who manipulated the electoral process during the primary elections went home to enjoy their money and none of them was reprimanded for anti-party activities. This is because whatever they may have perpetrated is an anti-party activity. So under my watch the primary elections must be free, fair and credible. If you think you have so much money go and campaign to the delegates and party members and not to get involved in corruption against APGA.  But your incumbent National Chairman, Chief Victor Oye has carried all the blames over the primaries and he wants to go for a second term? Those who are blaming the outgoing National Chairman are making a mistake. He is the National Chairman and we had committees set up for the respective primary elections and Oye cannot be everywhere. The blame should go to the various committees and their members. Also aspirants allowed themselves to fall victim to the antics of desperate people who instead of ensuring that internal democracy is put in place they choose to rip people off. The party had over bloating nomination forms and sold delegate forms at a very prohibitive cost and this is not fair. The decision has never been the sole position of Victor Oye even though the buck stops at his table. You may have credible candidates but they do not have that kind of resources to purchase forms and at the end several unpopular candidates will emerge. I am, however, not holding brief for Chief Victor Oye because he is also answerable to those allegations.  Your party and the UPP are now talking about merging and forming a new political party what are your views? There is nothing wrong in political parties merging but what is important is that the terms must be defined. We are set for our National Convention; and it would be whimsy and hasty for the party to go into any merger with other political party.  The church appears to be having an overbearing influence in APGA politics and your opponent Oye seems to enjoy this? I am not sure if this is true because we are all Christians. I heard the rumour in the past about the Catholic Church supporting him. If that should be the case, then I do not think anybody is more qualified than I am. I am a Knight of St John International in the Catholic Church which Oye is not. That gives me an edge over and above others. But this is party politics and I do not think that a political party would surrender its independence and rights to ensure internal democracy of the party to any religious body; be it Catholic, Anglican or Pentecostal Church.