Ahamba, Akintola, others express  concern over 523 minors in prison  No fewer than 523 minors are languishing in Anambra State’s prison. The development, according to lawyers, is a failure of the nation’s justice system. AKEEM NAFIU reports  The dip in the nation’s justice system was further confirmed last week with a revelation by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) that about 523 minors are languishing in various prisons in Anambra State. NHRC’s Coordinator in Anambra State, Mrs. Nkechi Ugwuanyi, made the revelation during an interactive session with some underage inmates at the Onitsha prisons on the occasion of the commemoration of the African “Pre-Trial” Day 2019, with the theme: Decriminalisation of petty and minor offences. Ugwuanyi told her host that she was at the facility to gather details of inmates who committed petty and minor offences.
“It’s on account of these offences that NHRC is propelled to undertake this visit. “The focus is to gather details of the inmates, whose alleged offences fall within the classification.
“This is to enable us to make appropriate interventions toward the decongestion of prisons through advocacy for decongestion through decriminalisation of petty or minor offences,” she said.
Anambra state is not alone in this infamous trend of underage imprisonment, other states of the federation are not left out. For instance, on 1st August, 2017, a total of 80 underage inmates of the Badagry prisons were granted amnesty by a former Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Olufunmilayo Atilade. The released minors whose ages ranged from 12 to 17 were clamped into prison over spurious offences like running away from school, wandering and breach of public peace. In a related development, a minor who had spent a year in custody was among the 55 prisoners released from Port Harcourt maximum security prison on 16th November, 2017 by the Chief Judge of Rivers State, Justice Adama Iyayi-Lamikanra, during a Goal Delivery programme.
It is unfortunate that these minors were imprisoned at a time their character ought to be moulded on a strong moral foundation. Child offenders are expected to be tried at juvenile courts while convicted minors should be sent to remand homes, and not the overcrowded prisons. They can also be sentenced to community service.
However, the persistence of underage imprisonment in the nation has shown that the Child Rights Act, which Nigeria adopted in 2003 is being treated with disdain by government at all levels. It was in this light that some members of the inner and outer Bar are calling on governments at all levels to immediately intervene and reverse the anomaly. The lawyers while speaking on the issue at the weekend disclosed that the anomaly was a sign of a broken society where governance at various levels had failed.
According to them, underage imprisonment could be traced to a combination of the failure of the prosecuting agency, the court as well as prison officials in performing the functions expected of them.
They further blamed the issue on the failure of those in position of authority to ensure strict implementation of laws relating to minors.
Speaking on the issue, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Mike Ahamba, sought prompt intervention of Chief Judges of States where minors are being detained in regular prisons. He said: “It depends on whether they have been convicted or just on remand. If those minors have been convicted and are left in prison, it is quite unfortunate. The Chief Judges of states concerned should move in immediately. “Minors are not supposed to be put in normal prison even after conviction over any offence. It is shocking to hear that at a time like this, courts are clamping minors in prison facilities. It’s quite unfortunate.
“The prosecutor and the courts are to be blamed for this anomaly. I also want to blame the prison authorities over their failure to report the presence of minors in the facilities under their care.
“It’s a combined failure of functions because one of these trio could have prevented or remedy the situation. “I expect that judicial officers ought to know the position of the law regarding cases of minors. Besides, even if the judicial officer handling the case is not aware that a minor is involved, the prosecutor ought to reveal this.”
Chief Niyi Akintola (SAN) blamed the situation on leadership failure at all levels of governanment as well as non-implementation of extant laws on minors. “It’s just rather unfortunate that this country is gradually going to the dogs. There are enough laws in our statute books to deal with all these issues. There is the Child Rights Abuse Act, there is the Criminal Code as well as the Juvenile laws apart from the country’s Constitution. There are enough laws but implementing them is our problem. Our judicial system is in shambles. “Minors are not expected to be arraigned in conventional courts, even when they commit criminal offences, in the first place. They are to be tried in camera.
“But, the question is, how many states in the country have juvenile courts? Also, how many states in Nigeria maintain the Social Welfare Department in the Ministry of Youths Development? In those days, there are remand homes for minors. I don’t know whether they still exist? These are the issues.  “So, all these things boils down to the failure of leadership at all levels of governance. Heads of local governments who are supposed to be concerned about the welfare of these minors are no longer alive to their responsibilities. They no longer keep minors register,” Akintola said.
A former Vice-President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Adekunle Ojo, attributed the anomaly to systemic failure. He said: “The fact that we have just a minor in any prison can only be attributed to systemic failure. This is because no minor could not have on his or her own walked into prison; it must have been at the instance of either the police or any other law enforcement entity. “Besides, someone can only enter prison after an arraignment before the court. It is therefore alarming and unfortunate that the court would allow a minor to be remanded in prison. If anyone is to be blamed for all these anomalies, it should be the judicial officer.
“There are other facilities where minors should be kept and they are not even supposed to be arraigned in conventional courts. Cases involving minors are expected to be transferred to juvenile courts. “In addressing the problem, conventional courts must engage in self-auditing. Heads of courts in each state must be conversant with what is going on in courts within their jurisdiction. When this is done, cases involving minors will no longer found their way to the conventional courts.” To the Editor of Nigerian Weekly Law Report (NWLR), Mr. Oluwole Kehinde, rising cases of underage imprisonment is a function of high level of unemployment and out-of-school children. He also called for immediate reform of the nation’s prison and justice system. “I believe it is a function of the overwhelming unemployment and volume of out-of-school children, which unfortunately are not being handled properly by government.
“The same thing happens in Lagos State where children are being detained for traffic and environmental offences. They are even conveyed to mobile courts and detention centers in Task Force trucks similar to Black Maria. That practice is indecent, inhuman and degrading. “There appears to be near failure of government and governance. Apart from the fact that the approach is not reformatory of the child offenders, the children rather become more hardened criminals. Also, the society suffers more pressure on prison facilities, infrastructure, financing and management. “Reforming the children by sending them to reformatories and engaging them in productive activities would benefit both the children and society more, and serve the overall interest of justice better.
“Government must immediately undertake justice and prison reforms to correct the anomaly. This is being chorused everyday but no concrete, definite action yet”, the lawyer said. The National President of the Campaign For the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Mr. Malachy Ugwummadu, while noting that juvenile courts were put in place to handle cases of child offenders said it was irregular to have minors in prisons. He said: “I want to say that it is not just unfortunate, but also irregular to have minors in prison. When you refer to prisons, it presupposes that these minors were there at the instance of a court. For a prosecutor to bring a minor before any court and for such court to order the remand of the minor in prison is not just unfortunate but also regrettable. “It is not for nothing that we have the juvenile courts. The attitude of the court and the criminal justice system is geared towards reforms and reformation. Therefore, the mere fact that minors are in Nigeria prisons is in itself both an abuse of power and abdication of responsibility.
“From law enforcement agencies to the courts and then prison officials, it ought to be noticed that an individual less than 18 years should not be kept in any prison facility. The blame will therefore go to every actor in the criminal justice system. “The interest of a prosecutor is not to secure conviction at all cost but to do justice and therefore nothing stops a prosecutor driven by firm conscience to point out to a trial court that the person on trial is a minor and ought to be taken to a juvenile court. “The Administration of Criminal Justice Act as well as the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos State makes copious provisions for alternative punishment rather than imprisonment and they were all designed towards the decongestion of prisons. There is community sentencing, suspended sentencing, plea bargain as well as the parole. All of these are designed to show that it is not in all cases that people are taken to prison. “For instance, a juvenile, depending on the nature of offence, can be asked to clear the court’s premises for a number of days. If his girlfriend or mother sees him in the Act, it is more than enough punishment tor him
“Section 34 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) empowers the Chief Judge of a state to designate magistrates who will go periodically to detention facilities including prions and effect the release of persons who otherwise have no business being there. All of these are aimed at prison decongestion. “What can be done to address the anomaly is for rights groups working in collaboration with journalists, to keep close tab on prisons across the country. The attention of designated magistrates in each state of the federation will be drawn to the presence of some of these minors who are languishing in prison facilities.” 