Ogun State government, on Thursday, declared that there was no truth in the reported plot to disrupt the inauguration of the Governor-elect, Prince Dapo Abiodun. The government faulted the police, which raised the alarm over alleged security intelligence that some unscrupulous elements are scheming to disrupt the May 29 inauguration of the incoming administration. This was contained in a statement by Rotimi Durojaiye, the Special Adviser on Information and Strategy to Governor Ibikunle Amosun. The state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, in a statement signed by the command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, recently said he had ordered 24-hour surveillance patrols across the length and breadth of the state as a result of the alleged plot. But reacting yesterday, Durojaiye said the sitting administration intends to sustain the appropriate environment for the new administration to take off orderly. He also denied the allegation that the state government deliberately blocked the road leading to the June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta, venue of prey inauguration activities of the Governor-elect. He assured that the Amosun administration would do all within its power and resources to keep the hard-earned peace of the state. The statement partly read, “Suffice to say that our Administration has earned a reputation for not engaging in the needless media war, particularly puerile allegations and innuendoes from political jobbers and mischief makers with purpose to serve. “Our disposition, therefore, remained to maintain stoic and dignified silence, even in the face of criminal untruths and unfair provocation as we are confident that posterity and chroniclers of history will properly situate our respective roles. “Having said that, we say emphatically that the allegations alluded to above are figments of the imagination of the mischief makers. The on-going construction works between NNPC and Kuto Roundabout started over a year ago. “Ironically, what the Contractors are doing in the past few days is to tidy up that axis to ensure more comfortable motoring experience for members of the public who will receive President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday, and by implication to make attendance at the inauguration programme more convenient. That lofty objective was achieved and today the pre-inauguration programme of the incoming administration is the earliest beneficiary of that thoughtful intervention. “As for the phantom disruption tale, we have engaged the Police authorities to stress the real danger in dishing out manifestly untrue, unproven and de-marketing statements to the public. We have received assurances that no one will become a tool in the hands of the Fifth Columnists who do not wish Ogun State well. “We assure all stakeholders that we shall do all within our power and resources to keep the hard earned peace in this blessed State. As the sitting administration, we intend to sustain the appropriate environment for the new Administration to take off orderly.”