 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has vowed to arrest and prosecute individuals or groups suspected to be involved in terrorism financing in the country. This was as the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has charged relevant authorities to beam searchlight on the banking sector, as the incident of kidnapping rises in some parts of the country. According to the anti-graft agency, anyone that sponsors violent extremism, contravenes the Terrorism Financing Act, and is liable to jail term upon conviction. The EFCC’s position is coming on the heels of the Nigerian Army’s alarm over the weekend, of alleged funding of terrorist groups by some unnamed individuals, groups, and foreign interests. The Army, in the statement conveying the alert, had said the objective was to “exacerbate the security situation in this country in particular and West African sub-region.” Against that backdrop, New Telegraph had sought to know from the EFCC, if it had some highly-placed personalities on its radar. In response, the Acting Head of Media and Publicity of EFCC, Mr. Tony Orilade, said though he did not have facts of those allegedly involved, as stated by the Army, the anti-graft body will never shirk its responsibility. “Anybody suspected to be sponsoring terror group surely goes contrary to Terrorism Financing Act which falls under the mandate of the EFCC to prosecute. But to speak in specific as to such individuals, groups or foreign interest, I don’t have such facts,” Orilade said. Meanwhile, the NIS has stated that for government to deal with kidnapping activities, attention should be paid to some transactions in the banking sector. The Comptroller General of Immigration (CGI), Mr. Muhammad Babandede, who made the position, insisted that more Nigerians were involved in kidnapping activities in some states in the North, with a “small” percentage of foreigners. “Kidnapping has to do with the money. We have to look towards the banks. Look, there is no kidnapping in the bush. “Even when they kidnap, they will come and enjoy the loot in the city. They will transfer their money; they will keep their money, they will like to drive good cars. “The whole idea of kidnapping is the interest of money. So, I think we should look at other sectors, than just looking at foreigners,” Babandede said. On the suspicion that foreigners were involved in the crime, Babandede noted: “I don’t like assumptions in analysis of crime. If you know that some kidnappers have been caught, if you tell me the number of percentage of foreigners, I will give you the analysis and you can find out and make the analysis. “The number is small. There are a lot of Nigerian criminals and criminal groups. We should not transfer our crime to another territory. It is our problem. But, I agree with you, if we have porous borders even Nigerians can run away.” The comptroller-general, however, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the approval of e-border for the service to tackle trans-border crimes. “We now have approval to run 88 border stations where we can see what is happening in real time online. “There is also technological support for immigration to tackle border crimes in real time online, to add support to the military, customs, among others,” he said. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, has urged Western countries to reject stolen monies from African countries. He also called for stronger synergy among impoverished countries in Africa in order to achieve desired outcomes in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. Dogara, who made… In “News” The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) recently engaged to review their tact of breaking financial fraud cycle. Abdulwahab Isa reports   Nigeria's economy is significant to the Africa continent and Europe. Given her huge population size of about 190 million people, blessed… In “Business” The controversy surrounding the suspension of Nigeria from the Egmont Group and the outburst of Professor Itse Sagay on the attitude of the Nigerian government towards the fight against corruption cast a shadow of doubt on the sincerity of the Buhari led administration. In any case, there is so… In “Law”