 The different stages of life such as childhood, adolescent stage, adulthood and old age, is the focus of the debut solo exhibition of paintings by a contemporary Nigerian artist, Oluwole Omofemi, which opened on Saturday, May 4, at Alexis Galleries, Victoria Island, Lagos.  Titled Iriri (experience), the exhibition runs till this Saturday, May 11. The works which will be on display will mostly show the basic life stages in the female gender – adolescent/puberty stage.  Omofemi’s artistic imagination is fed by childhood experiences in the back street of Ibadan. His works betray a soft spot for women and children and genuine concern for the underprivileged children in the society. Omofemi’s works frequently resonates with a deep appreciation of African fashion, rediscovery of forgotten hairstyle and Afrocentric pride.  He enjoys expression in acrylic and oil paint, which are his media for vibrant expressive creativity. He is interested in historical themes and early childhood experiences.  “Iriri (experience) is an art exhibition that focuses on the different life stages such as childhood, adolescent stage, adulthood and old age. The works which will be on display will mostly show the basic life stages in the female gender. The stages in the life of a female gender are quite interesting, right from infancy to the adolescent and puberty stage, and then to the adulthood, which helps them into motherhood. This stage is quite an interesting and intense stage. She begins to develop into a woman and becomes more conscious of her physical appearance, starting with her hair and outfits,” says Omofemi.  Significantly, Omofemi’s works depict everyday occurrences and seeks to correct social vices that are vast spreading in the society and he aims to deploy the influence of visual art to better the lot of children and revived the neglected beauty of African fashion.  A bold feature of the works on display is the Afro, a once popular hairstyle. For the artist, ‘Afro’ is not just about hairstyle, but importantly. “The Afro is a symbol of the black beauty and a neglected hair fashion of Africans. It dates back to the 50s and 60s when African women wore their natural hair gorgeously. The unstretched Afro (kinky) hair was a way to celebrate the culture and uniqueness of the black race. No wonder women feel their hair is a  ‘crowning glory’ as this phrase dates back to the Biblical times.   According to 1Corinthians 11:15, ‘but for a woman, if her hair is abundant, it is a glory to her; for her hair is given to her for a covering.’ A woman’s hair is the first most noticeable part of her beauty. Thus, this helps us to understand the mystery behind every woman’s beauty and to further understand the interest of the artist on this regard and why he decided to be so emphatic on this. Ejire (twins) is a perfect example of this. The twins are seen wearing their Afro gorgeously. Their choice of outfits and colours also depicts their temperament and lifestyle.” Omofemi is an accomplished visual artist. Born in the late 80s among the rusty-roofed dwelling of the ancient city of Ibadan, he had his National Diploma and Higher National Diploma in Fine Art at the Polytechnic of Ibadan. He is a member of the world touring art group ‘Coure de Diona’ based in Italy and his works are widely collected in Nigeria and outside Nigeria. Omofemi has participated in many group exhibitions both home and internationally. Iriri is sponsored by Tiger, Pepsi, Mikano, Delta Airline, Wazobia TV, Nederburg, Cobranet Internet Service Provider, Cool FM, Art Café and the Homestores Limited. “For this exhibition Alexis Galleries is partnering with Braille Book Production Centre, a place that provides educational services for blind and visually impaired pupils and adults and equip them for an independent life. “The centre was set up by Nigerwives, a not for profit association of non-Nigerian women married to Nigerian men who reside in Nigeria in 1995, and has pioneered the computer production of brailed textbooks in Nigeria.
“Part of the proceeds will be donated to the centre,” says Patty Chidiac-Mastrogiannis, Founder and Director of Alexis Galleries.