CHUKWU DAVID reports that last Thursday’s Supreme Court judgement, which voided all the votes cast for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State and declared the candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) winners in all the elective positions in the last general election, has altered the configuration of the 9th Senate as well as sent jitters to the camps of the two major contenders for the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan and Ali Ndume   Before Thursday May 23, the results of the March 9, National Assembly elections held across the country had the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) leading in the number of senatorial seats won, followed by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).
As at Wednesday May 22, which was the day that actually preceded the judgement of the Supreme Court on the Zamfara State political imbroglio, the APC had 65 senators-elect; PDP, 41 and the Young Progressives Party (YPP), had one seat. The results of Imo North and Imo East senatorial districts are yet to be determined because of the controversy that erupted soon after the polls.
For instance, the incumbent senator representing Imo North, Benjamin Uwajumogu of the APC, who was not satisfied with the outcome of the election in his district, approached the court, requesting that the result be voided. The court granted his request and the case is still pending in court.
For Imo West, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had to withdraw the certificate of return it earlier issued to the immediate past governor of the state, Rochas Okorocha, after the Returning Officer in the election, alleged that he declared him winner under duress.
With this development, it means that the APC now has 62 senators-elect; PDP, 44 and YPP, one senator-elect. This therefore, means that the 9th Senate currently has a total of 107 senators-elect out of the 109-seat membership, with two seats pending.
Unless the issues around the two senatorial results in Imo State are resolved as quickly as possible, the affected areas may not have representatives during the inauguration of the 9th Senate coming up in less than three weeks’ time.
Meanwhile, in Bauchi State, although the INEC declared APC as winner of the Bauchi South senatorial election, the internal wrangling in the party has made the electoral umpire not to announce any particular candidate as the rightful winner. It is not certain if the matter would be resolved before the inauguration.
The APC recorded its highest result in the North-West geopolitical zone, where it secured 17 out of the 21 senatorial seats, followed by the South-West and the North-East, where it secured 14 senatorial seats each, out of 18 seats each. The ruling party also got 13 seats out of 18 in the North Central.
On the other hand, the PDP got its the highest senatorial positions from the South-South, where it secured 15 out of the 18 senatorial slots in the zone, while also securing 11 out of 15 slots in the South-East.
A breakdown of how the political parties won and lost the senatorial elections on zonal and state levels shows:
Abia
In Abia State, two senatorial seats were won by the PDP while one slot was won by the APC.
Enyinnaya Abaribe of the PDP representing Abia South defeated Chris Nkwonta of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to retain his seat, while a former Governor of the State, Theodore Orji, beat Chidi Ajaegbu of APGA to return to the Senate for Abia Central.
In Abia North, another former governor of the state and the candidate of APC, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, emerged winner of the contest as he defeated the incumbent senator, Mao Ohuabunwa of the PDP. Anambra
The PDP won two senatorial seats in Anambra State. Senator Stella Oduah of the PDP defeated Emmanuel Chinedu of APGA to retain her seat in Anambra North, while Uche Ekwunife also of the PDP beat Senator Victor Umeh of APGA to emerge winner at the senatorial poll.
Ifeanyi Ubah of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) won the Anambra South senatorial seat which is presently occupied by Andy Ubah of the APC. Ebonyi
In Ebonyi, the PDP produced all the three senators in the last senatorial election. Two serving senators – Sam Egwu and Obinna Ogba returned for Ebonyi North and Ebonyi Central, respectively, while Michael Ama Nnachi emerged the new senator for Ebonyi South. The incumbent senator, Sonni Ogbuoji, was the APC governorship candidate in the March 9, governorship elections. Enugu
The PDP won all the three senatorial slots in the state, with the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu emerging in Enugu West for the fifth time, after defeating Mrs. Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu of the APC. Senator Chukwuka Utazi beat his opponent, Eugene Odoh of the APC to emerge in Enugu North, while a former governor of the state, Chimaroke Nnamani of the PDP won the Enugu East Senatorial District election. He defeated Prince Lawrence Eze of the APC. Imo
In Imo State, the Imo East Senatorial District election was won by Hon. Onyebuchi Ezenwa of thePDP, who is currently a member of the House of Representatives and Chairman, House Committee on Labour, Employment and Productivity. Results of Imo North and Imo West are still pending following accompanying contentions. Osun
APC won two senatorial seats in the state. The Osun Central seat was won by Ajibola Bashiru of the APC, Engr. Adelere Oriolowo also of APC won Osun West, while Osun East was won by Adenigba Fadahunsi of the PDP. Oyo
In Oyo State, the APC won two senatorial seats, while the PDP won one slot. Incumbent Senator Abdulfatai Buhari of APC emerged in Oyo North, Teslim Folarin also of APC won in Oyo Central,while Oyo South was won by Lekan Balogun of the PDP, who defeated Governor Abiola Ajimobi. Ondo
In Ondo State, two senatorial seats were won by the PDP, while APC won. Incumbent Senator Ajayi Boroffice of APC retained his Ondo North seat, while Ayo Akiyelure of the PDP emerged for Ondo Central. Ondo South was won by Nicholas Tofowomo, also of the PDP. Ogun
In Ogun State, APC cleared all the three senatorial seats. Ogun Central was won by Governor Ibikunle Amosun, who defeated Mrs. Titi Oseni-Gomez of the African Democratic Party (ADC), Chief Tolu Odebiyi won the Ogun-West seat, while Ogun East was won by Lekan Mustapha. Lagos
APC also won all the senatorial seats in the Lagos State, with Senator Oluremi Tinubu emerging for Lagos Central, Bayo Osinowo for Lagos East, while incumbent Senator Olamilekan Adeola emerged for Lagos West. Ekiti
In Ekiti State, the three senatorial seats were won by the APC. Dayo Adeyeye beat the incumbent, Biodun Olujimi of the PDP in Ekiti South. Opeyemi Bamidele defeated Obafemi Adewale of the PDP for Ekiti Central while Olubunmi Adetunbi beat Duro Faseyi of the PDP in the Ekiti North. Edo
In Edo, the three serving senators were re-elected. PDP won two seats, while APC secured one which is the present status quo. Incumbent Senator Francis Alimikhena of the APC defeated Abubakar Momoh of the PDP for Edo North senatorial district; Matthew Urhoghide of the PDP was returned for Edo South, while Clifford Ordia of the PDP won in Edo Central. Akwa Ibom
PDP won the three senatorial seats in Akwa Ibom. While the former Deputy Governor, Chris Ekpenyong defeated Senator Godswill Akpabio (APC) for Akwa Ibom West, Senator Bassey Akpan retained his seat in the Akwa Ibomw North East, while Akon Eyakenyi of the PDP defeated incumbent Senator Nelson Effiong (Akwa Ibom South) of the APC. Delta
In Delta State, the three incumbent senators returned, with PDP maintaining its two seats and APC one. Senator James Manager of the PDP won in Delta South, Peter Nwoboshi also of the PDP won in Delta North (but INEC has withdrawn his Certificate of Return and handed it over Ned Nwoko of the same party), while Ovie Omo-Agege of the APC won in Delta Central. Cross River
The PDP swept the three senatorial seats in the state. Senator Rose Oko won in the Cross River North; Gershom Bassey won in Cross River South, while Sandy Onor defeated former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba of the APC to emerge for Cross River Central District. Rivers
The PDP cleared the three seats in the state. A former member of the Senate, George Sekibo, won in Rivers East; Betty Apiafi, who is a serving member of the House of Representatives won in Rivers West, while Parry Mpigi won in Rivers South-East. Bayelsa
In Bayelsa State, the PDP won two senatorial districts, while APC won one. Donye Diri won in Bayelsa Central, Lawrence Ewrujakpor won in Rivers West, while Beyelsa East was won by Biobarukuma Degi-Eremenyo of the APC. Kwara
The APC won the three senatorial seats in Kwara State. Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe of the APC defeated the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki (PDP) in Kwara Central; Umar Sadiq defeated Zakari Mohammed also of the PDP in Kwara North, while Lola Ashiru beat Senator Rafiu Ibrahim also of the PDP in Kwara South. Kogi
APC won two senatorial districts of Kogi East and Central, while PDP won in Kogi West. Yakubu Oseni won in Central, Jibrin Echocho, Kogi East, while incumbent Senator Dino Melaye won in Kogi West on the platform of the PDP. Nasarawa
APC won the three senatorial positions in Nasarawa State. Nasarawa South was won by the immediate past governor, Tanko Almakura; Nasarawa West was won by the serving senator, Abdullahi Adamu, while Godiya Akwashiki won in Nasarawa North. Plateau
In Plateau State, APC won two seats, while PDP won one. Hezekiah Dimka of the APC won in Plateau Central; a former deputy governor of the state, Amb. Longjan Datong, won in Plateau South, while PDP’s Isthfanus Gyang won in Plateau North. Benue
In Benue State, PDP won the three senatorial seats. Former Governor Gabriel Suswam defeated incumbent Senator Barnabas Gemade in Benue North East; a former Minister of Interior, Abba Moro, won in Benue South, while Hon Orker Jev, a member of the House of Representatives defeated a former governor and incumbent senator, George Akume, in Benue North West. Niger
The APC swept the three districts in Niger State. Serving Senator Sabi Abdullahi won in Niger North, Sani Musa in Niger East and Bima Enagi in Niger South. They defeated their PDP counterparts at the poll. FCT
The only senatorial slot for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) was won by the current Senate Minority Whip, Senator Philip Aduda of the PDP. He defeated Zephaniah Jisalo of the APC, who is a serving member of the House of Representatives. Kano
In Kano, the APC swept the three Senate seats, with incumbent Senators Kabiru Gaya and Barau Jibrin representing Kano South and Kano North respectively, re-elected, while a former governor of the state, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, won in Kano Central. Kaduna
APC won two slots in Kaduna State, while PDP won one. Uba Sani defeated Senator Shehu Sani of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) in Kano Central, while Suleiman Abdu Kwari defeated incumbent Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi of the PDP in Kaduna North. In Kaduna South, serving Senator Danjuma Laah of the PDP beat a former deputy governor of the state, Bala Bantex of APC. Katsina
The ruling party also cleared the three senatorial seats in Katsina State. Kabir Barkiya won in Katsina Central, Bello Mandiya won in South, while Ahmed Baba-Kaita won in Katsina North. Jigawa
Following the trend in other north western states, APC also won all the senatorial seats in Jigawa State, with Ibrahim Hassan Hadejia winning in Jigawa North East; Danladi Sankara, Jigawa North West and Muhammed Sabo Naku, Jigawa Central. Sokoto
APC also cleared the three seats in Sokoto State. Senator Aliyu Wamakko retained his seat in Sokoto North, Ibrahim Gobir got re-elected in Sokoto East, while Abubakar Shehu Tambuwal won in Sokoto South. Zamfara
Following the Supreme Court judgement of last Thursday, the entire three senatorial seats for Zamfara State were awarded to the PDP, which initially lost in all. This means that the immediate past governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari, who had positioned himself to represent Zamfara West will no longer be in the Red Chamber in the 9th Assembly.
Tijani Yahaya Kaura, who is the incumbent Senator representing Zamfara North will also be missing from the apex legislative Chamber in the next four years, while a former Communications Minister, Ikira Aliyu Bilbis, who was earlier declared for Zamfara Central, will not be a member of the 9th Senate. Kebbi
In Kebbi, the three serving senators were re-elected on the platform of the APC, with Adamu Aliero, billed to represent Kebbi Central, Bala N’Allah, Kebbi South and Yahaya Abdullahi, North. Gombe
The three seats were won by the APC, with incumbent Senator Danjuma Goje (Gombe Central) retaining his seat, while Saidu Alkali and Amos Bunus won in Gombe North and Gombe South respectively as fresh senators-elect. Adamawa
In Adamawa, PDP won two seats, while APC got one. Ishaku Cliff of PDP defeated incumbent Senator Binta Masi in Adamawa North, while Bino Yero, also of the PDP won in Adamawa South. APC’s Ishatu Dahiru Binani won in Adamawa Central. Borno
APC also cleared all the seats in Borno State. The immediate past governor, Kashim Shettima, won in Borno Central; Ali Ndume retained his Borno South seat. Abubakar Kyari also retained his Borno North seat. Bauchi
In Bauchi, APC took the three seats. Haliru Jiga won in Bauchi Central, Lawal Yahaya won in Bauchi South, while the court is to determine on the authentic candidate of the party in Bauchi North. Taraba
In Taraba State, PDP won two senatorial districts, while APC won one. Incumbent Senator Emmanuel Bwacha won in Taraba South, while another incumbent senator, Shuaibu Isa Lau (PDP) won in Taraba North. Incumbent Senator Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf was reelected in Taraba Central on the platform of the APC. Yobe
The three senatorial seats in the state were also cleared by the ruling APC. Immediate past governor of the state, Ibrahim Geidam, won in Yobe East, Ibrahim Bomoi won in Yobe South, while the Leader of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan retained his Yobe North seat.
Meanwhile, ahead of next month’s inauguration of the 9th Senate, there is anxiety within the ranks of the two major contenders for the Senate presidency, Senators Ahmad Lawan and Ali Ndume, over the unusual calmness in the camps of PDP senators-elect and Senator Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe).
New Telegraph learnt that the Thursday’s Supreme Court judgement, which voided all the votes cast for the APC in Zamfara State, and declared the PDP winner in all the elective positions in the last general elections, has sent jitters to the camps of Lawan and Ndume.
Some senators who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, said that the decision of the apex court, which now diminishes the numerical strength of the ruling party in the National Assembly, has further put the camps of the two contenders in a more precarious situation in the pending poll.
On why the silence of the PDP senators-elect is a source of concern to Lawan and Ndume, it was learnt that Lawan’s camp in particular, is worried because of the rumour that the opposition party is backing Goje, who has not made any public statement to confirm whether or not he is contesting for the Senate presidency.
Commenting on how the Supreme Court judgement on Zamfara will affect the election of the leadership of the 9th Senate, sources close to the apex legislative chamber, told our correspondent that politics is a game of number, and that one vote can make a lot of difference, particularly in an election in which simple majority is required for a winner to emerge.
They are of the opinion that the appreciation of PDP’s numerical strength in both chambers of the National Assembly will make a lot of impact in the election of the presiding officers of the apex parliament in the next two weeks.