There are currently about three million retail investors in the Nigerian Capital Market, representing only three percent of the total adult population in the country, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has said. The Divisional Head, Trading Business, Mr. Jude Chiemeka disclosed this yesterday at maiden edition of Retail Investor Workshop tagged ‘Investment Masterclass; Making your money work’ organized by NSE. Specifically, Chiemeka said, “Nigeria has a population of over 190 million people and is the second largest economy in Africa. However, the current Financial Inclusion indices of 48 per cent leave much to be desired. Financial Inclusion is a priority of stakeholders in the Capital Market, and the Nigerian Stock Exchange makes it a primary concern to contribute towards the achievement of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy of reducing the proportion of adult Nigerians that are financially excluded to 20 per cent in the year 2020”. He noted that the Exchange recognizes the need to improve investor participation, and is leveraging recent Capital Market Initiatives such as the Tiered KYC requirements for capital market investments, as well as promoting the introduction of globally competitive investment products with low entry thresholds, to achieve Financial Inclusion goals. “These initiatives have begun to yield positive results, as the market has in recent times witnessed an upturn in retail investor participation,” he added. “Market data from 2019 shows that retail investors outperformed institutional investors by 8 per cent in January, and again by 2 per cent in March 2019. “The Retail Coverage Department of the NSE will be rolling out measures directed at encouraging retail investor involvement in the Capital Markets. Over the next few years, various investment workshops will be held across the country, starting with this one here in Lagos. Investors can look forward to regular engagements targeted at promoting Financial Literacy, building investor confidence, as well as the introduction of innovative and technology driven solutions to stimulate investor participation.”