 Members of the Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), popularly known as computer village traders, recently shut down business activities to protest the planned installation of female and male market leaders called ‘Iyaoloja’ and ‘Babaloja’ respectively.  The traders said that their protest was to draw the attention of Lagos State Ministry of Industry, against the plan by some people to cause trouble in the technology market hub.  One of the executive members of the CAPDAN, who preferred anonymity, said that computer village was an international market that did not need such imposition of Iyaloja or Babaloja. He reasoned that the places where Iyaloja and Babaloja operate should be in a setting like that of pepper sellers, not like computer village in Ikeja, where they were elected executive members who oversee the activities of the place.  According to him, it seems that those behind the installation of the informal leaders want to impose it on them. He added: “We also want the state government to be aware of levies collected by unauthorised people in the market. They go to the length of locking peoples’ shops, for not paying the unauthorised fees from the traders. The same traders are still paying various taxes in the state and local government. We don’t want to die in silence, where a group of people who have no business in the market are exploiting the people.  “We dropped our petition with the state government and we believe, they will take action against the development. We have faith in the state government, which has supported us as business operators in the state,” he said.  An Information Communication Technology Engineer, Mr. Kunle Lawal, inside the market, said that the market was not like the regular markets where such setting should be imposed. He said that installing such leaders in the place would undermine the market because there was no relationship between technology and Iyaoloja or Babaloja.  “What do the Iyaoloja and Babaloja have to offer? What value are they going to add to the ICT hub? And what technological innovations are they bringing? The computer village is not like any other street market where pepper and other things are sold. It is rather an international technology hub and it should be treated as such,” he said.  Also, a shop owner who preferred anonymity said that the computer village was an international market and should be treated as such. According to him, it will undermine the position of computer village internationally as the biggest technological hub in West Africa. He said further that installing such Iyaoloja and Babaloja would contradict what the hub was known for and breach the peace there because it was not a regular market. One of the oldest traders in the market, said that any installation of traditional leaders in the place would disturb the over 25 years of peaceful existence of the hub. He stressed that computer village was not a regular market and such installation was not needed and would not be accepted by the traders or by their association. The Computer Village in Lagos, which is often referred to as the largest technology hub in Africa, is not new to controversy. The tech market, which not long ago wriggled out of crisis arising from the Lagos State Government’s plan to relocate the market to other part of the state, is now embroiled in leadership crisis.  Accommodating over 3,000 ICT Small and Medium Enterprises, the market is reputed for generating over N1.5 billion turnover on daily basis and contributing significantly to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product. This laudable contributions to the economy is however being threatened by the on-going leadership tussle in the market.  The President of Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN) Mr. Hammed Ojikutu, said that they are talking to stakeholders including Mrs. Tinubu-Ojo and they hope of getting good result.  Also speaking, Assistant Public Relations Officer of CAPDAN Mr. Presley Ibadin, expressed regrets that the progress and growth of the market is now being truncated by the development. “This is a matter of interests and I believe it can be resolved amicably if the parties can come to a round table. It may be rowdy at first since temper is still high, but a second meeting and third will lead to resolution of the matter, with all interests catered for”, he said.  But the President-General, Association of Commodity Market Women and Men of Nigeria, Mrs Folashade Tinubu-Ojo, has called on traders at the Computer Village to be law-abiding and shun acts that could undermine peace in the market. She made the call, during a meeting with top members of Computer Village Community Development Association (CDA) and some traders in Ikeja.  Tinubu-Ojo’s call was in reaction to protests by some traders in the market, over her endorsement of Mr. Adeniyi Olasoji and Mrs. Abisola Azeez as ‘Babaloja’ and ‘Iyaloja,’ respectively. She said the protests were staged on a faulty premise and that she was disturbed by the action. She alleged that the protests were sponsored by some disgruntled elements at the Computer Village who were not interested in the progress of the market.  Tinubu-Ojo said sponsors of the protests were opposed to the emergence of the new market leaders because they wanted to perpetuate themselves as leaders of the market.  She denied imposition of the new market leaders on the traders, saying she only endorsed those who had been chosen by stakeholders to lead the market. Also speaking, regent to the stool of Olu of Ikeja, Prince Isiaka Apena, said the protests were uncalled for.