Though the current tango over transmission of the results of the 2019 presidential election is between the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ONYEKACHI EZE writes that the emerging information indicate great threat to integrity of Nigeria’s polls  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) believes the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has something to hide. This, the party said, was the reason the commission wants to destroy the evidence that the result of the 2019 presidential was transmitted electronically. The party and its presidential candidate in the election, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar have told the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal that the results obtained from the INEC server showed that Atiku won the election, by scoring 18,356,732 votes while President Muhammadu Buhari scored 16,741,430 votes. These figures were different from the 15,191,847 and 11,262,978 votes, which the commission declared on February 27 by INEC as scores for Buhari and Atiku respectively. This disclosure has pitched INEC and PDP in battle of wits over electronic transmission of the presidential election, even as the petitioners will at the trial of this petition rely on experts on Microsoft, IBM and Oracle, amongst others. But these have since rattled INEC. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP said the INEC was replacing all the servers in its headquarters and offices in all states of the federation and Abuja, “in a desperate bid to obliterate the actual presidential election results transmitted from the polling centers across the nation. “Our party also has details of how the INEC leadership and the presidency agents procured and detailed computer experts to the commission’s offices to switch the servers, mutilate vital information in the system and attempt to erase all trails of transmitted results to the main server. “Moreover, our party has been informed about how the INEC leadership, several weeks after the election, used some compromised officials of the commission to manipulate voter registers in some states by ticking names of individuals who did not participate in the presidential election, as having voted. This is with the view to using such to cover the fictitious results it wrote for the APC.” But INEC said there was no electronic collation of results in the elections. Ironically, some of its ad hoc staff allegedly claimed to have transmitted the results, electronically to INEC server, and were ready to testify before the tribunal that they were trained and instructed to do so. One of them was quoted to have said: “I took part in the conduct of the presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections of 23rd February 2019 where I served as the Presiding Officer (PO) and I ensured the use of the Smart Card Reader for accreditation, verification, authentication, collation and transmission of votes in my polling unit.” Another also allegedly declared: “At the end of voting, the information on the smart card reader with the results inclusive, were collated by me in the presence of the party agents and other ad-hoc staff of the 1st Respondent after which my Assistant Presiding Officer (AP0-1) transmitted the result electronically in my presence to the 1st Respondent’s server, using the Smart Card Reader (SCR) and the code provided by the 1st Respondent.” Yet another ad hoc staff said: “I was employed as an ad hoc staff and trained for three days by the 1st Respondent at the Government College, Maiduguri, Borno State to serve as a Presiding Officer (PO) at Waliri Polling Unit with Code 003, of Shehun Barna Ward, Bomo State on the 23rd February 2019 presidential and National Assembly (Senate and House of Representatives) elections.” Atiku’s legal team also promised to tender INEC’s training manual on elections, a printout of the votes of candidates from smart card readers and a printout of the forensic audit report on INEC’s server as evidence. Electronic transmission of results was one of the clauses in the Electoral Act (2019) Bill passed by the National Assembly but was rejected by President Buhari. Despite the rejection, it is one of the issues before the election tribunal to adjudicate in the petition filed by Atiku who is challenging the declaration of Muhammadu Buhari, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate as winner of the February 23 presidential election. Even though the matter is before the tribunal to adjudicate, the actors have not restrained themselves from engaging in debate in print and electronic media. Political and social commentators, and even the parties involved in the petition before the tribunal are busy discussing it in both traditional and social media. Nobody is afraid of the consequences of sub-judice, which such entails. Electronic transmission of election results is one of the innovations promised by Prof. Mahmood Yakubu to introduce in the conduct of elections to further make it credible and transparent, when he was made INEC Chairman in November 2015. He told the United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington shortly after assuming office that the Commission would take a step further from the conduct of the 2015 polls, to make elections in Nigeria transparent and acceptable. “After the 2015 elections, there were jubilations on the streets and this further underscored the achievement of the commission and the steps that Nigeria has taken towards consolidating its democracy. “We appreciate your kind words; 2015 was a defining moment for Nigeria elections, but we want to assure you that the commission is conscious of its responsibility and we are committed to making future elections even better. “It is for that reason we are taking some steps in ensuring that the 2019 general elections are better than 2015 general elections,” Prof. Yakubu assured his guest. The INEC Chairman equally told forum of State Independent Electoral Commissions (SIECs) that the commission was planning to phase out manual conduct of elections in the country, and replace them with modern technology. “We can no longer continue to conduct elections manually in Nigeria; we must introduce modern technology as    being done in other countries; very soon the use of technology for the conduct of local elections in the country will be mandatory “It will make the process transparent and very open as it should be. The use of smart card, otherwise known as card reader machine has come to stay, though it requires a lot of resources. We see we can do it because it adds value and more credibility to the electoral process in the country. Some states have been using it in the conduct of their elections, we are seeing how we can make it to go round,” he told SIECs members. The Commission took a step further and visited the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) and the Nigeria Communications Satellite (NigComSat), to solicit their cooperation for electronic transmission of results. All these were done in anticipation of an enabling law that would guarantee electronic transmission of election results. But when this did not materialise, INEC sometime in January this year, ruled out electronic transmission of results. Instead, the commission said it would only carry out a nationwide pilot electronic transmission of results in the 2019 general elections. Prof. Yakubu said at first quarterly meeting with the media this year that full electronic transmission of results could only be possible with an enabling law for. “The commission is also aware of the interest expressed by the media to learn more about the commission’s electronic results transmission process, including its backend processes. “This meeting will include a presentation on the pilot we carried out in some of the off-season elections conducted by the commission,” INEC Chairman told media executives. The question is: what does “nationwide pilot electronic transmission of results” entail? And will it be sufficient to prove a case of electronic transmission of results at the tribunal? These are probably what the tribunal might decide. It is the tribunal that will decide if these would be admissible or not, in view of the fact that electronic transmission of elections results is not a law in Nigeria. The Supreme Court, in 2016, ruled that the card reader is alien to the 1999 Nigeria constitution, even though the usage in the election was to prevent multiple voting. But this is not to overlook Section 52(2) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), and Section 160 of the 1999 constitution.  Section 52(2) of the Electoral Act grants INEC the right to decide how elections should be conducted. It says: “Voting at an election under this Act shall be in accordance with the procedure determined by the Independent National Electoral Commission.” Section 160 of the constitution states: “… In the case of the Independent National Electoral Commission, its powers to make its own rules or otherwise regulate its own procedure shall not be subject to the approval or control of the president.” A clear case is the issue of supplementary elections. Section 26 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) allows for conduct of supplementary election where “the number of cancelled votes can mathematically affect the outcome of the election.” Clause 47(e) of INEC Regulations and Guidelines notes that “where the margin of win between the two leading candidates is not in excess of the total number of registered voters of the polling unit(s) where the election was cancelled or not held, the returning officer shall decline to make a return until another poll has taken place in the affected polling unt(s) and the result incorporated into the existing one.” It again states that “where the Commission determines that violent disruptions occurred at a substantial number of polling units before announcement of result, a fresh date for election in the affected polling units shall be announced by the Commission.” While the controversy ranges, observers believe the current development is an additional blow on the credibility of the 2019 elections, coming on the heels of local and international observers’ great concern about the complicity of security agencies in the last elections, even as some commended INEC. Early last week, some of the Civil Society Organisations prematurely attempted to exonerate INEC of any blame in the elections but accused “desperate politicians” of under-handed dealings in the polls. But the current allegations, reminiscent of Russia’s interference with the United States’ election results in 2016 and remotely controlled the emergence of Donald Trump as president, have put INEC’s integrity precariously on the line. Irrespective of the position of the Supreme Court which may be based on legality or morality, at the end of the day, if proven that INEC tampered with or erased results in its own server to suit a particular candidate, the consequences on its credibility and that of its leadership would be unimaginable. Similarly, it will show a glimmer and grimmer picture of not only of politicians’ desperation in their quest for political power but also how scientific and artfully contrived and conspiratorial they can be to subvert the popular will of the electorate. Of course, that Machiavellian desperation will open a new vista of interrogation for law enforcement agencies and genuine stakeholders committed to popular democracy and a politically stable Nigeria.  The All Progressives Congress (APC) has described as ridiculous the claim by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar that they won the 2019 presidential election by a margin of 1.6 million votes. National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, who stated this… In “News” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) have disagreed over the petition filed by the party before the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. While PDP accused the commission of obstructing the cause of justice by refusing to release the election materials used for the conduct of… In “News” PDP to INEC: Declare Atiku winner of presidential poll APC: PDP's victory claim premature INEC: Expect result from today     Tension is building in the polity ahead of today’s announcement of the results of the Saturday’s Presidential election as President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and… In “News”