…revokes allocation of 15 plots, withdraws 114 others  The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) is to embark on the demolition of about 215 abandoned buildings within the FCT as these structures have become hideouts for criminal elements and heightened the level of insecurity in Abuja.  Executive Secretary, Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA), Engr. Umar Jibrin, who disclosed this after the weekly FCTA Executive Council meeting in Abuja, said most of the buildings are located in the highbrow Asokoro and Maitama districts of the city.  Jibrin also said that the status of building approvals for about 95 uncompleted buildings, 879 vacant plots, 739 plots duly allocated and six other plots without approvals, would be reviewed    according to the town planning laws.
He said the reviews and demolition exercise were not targeted at individuals, but to ensure sanity within the city. In addition to the abandoned and uncompleted buildings, Jibrin said, approvals granted to existing parks and event centres in the capital will be subjected to a similar review.  According to him, most of the structures built in the city centre contravened the Abuja master plan and must be pulled down after the necessary procedures have been followed. He said that already, 15 plots have been revoked, 10 withdrawn while 114 other allocation without records would be reviewed. “With the increasing rate of insecurity across the country, we have resolved that all structures in FCT, especially those that are not in line with the master plan would be pulled down. Most of the areas that will be affected include Asokoro, Maitama, Gwarimpa and Wuse Districts. “The exercise is not targeted at any individual, but to restore green areas as captured in the master plan,” Jibrin said. He said all agencies involved have been directed to take measures that would assist in the demolition exercise. The decision followed the resolutions of FCTA Executive Council meeting which the Minister of FCT, Malam Muhammad Bello, chaired. Director, Abuja Geographic Information Systems (AGIS), Dr. Isa Jalo, said that a new park policy that would address the lingering issues of converting gardens for other uses has been put in place to check abuses. Director, FCT Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTS), Mr. Wadata Aliyu Bodinga, said the ban on bikes and tricycles remain in force and that their influx into Abuja remained prohibited. Aliyu called on security agencies and the general public to remain supportive of the policy to give FCT residents a good and safe life. He called on members of the public to withdraw their patronage of bikes in City Centre to discourage the activities of these motorbike and tricycle operators. He reiterated the resolve of the FCTA to restrict the operations of these motor bikes and tricycles to estates and the suburbs.  