Rohr to field ‘weak’ squad for friendly Warriors not pushovers, Eagles’ coordinator insists  There is a big question regarding the international friendly between Nigeria and Zimbabwe as the June 8 date of the match clashes with the COSAFA Cup tournament in which the Warriors will participate.  The match, slated to take place in Asaba, Delta State, is one of the two friendlies the Nigeria Football Federation lines up for the Super Eagles ahead of the African Cup of Nations. Reports emerged that the Warriors, who are gunning for their third COSAFA Cup title, will be involved in the tournament which will end on the same day they are to face Nigeria.  The Warriors coach Sunday Chidzambga is now faced with the possibility of naming two different squads for the engagements . Warriors’ team manager Wellington Mpandare said a decision was yet to be made on whether to select two teams for the two assignments and the dilemma had caused the delay in the announcement of the COSAFA and the AFCON provisional squads.  “We are still waiting for ZIFA to advise us whether there is going to be two separate teams or it’s going to be one team. But it looks like we may end up having two separate teams because we are likely going to reach the COSAFA final and not be able to fulfil the Nigeria fixture. Even if we were going to be eliminated in the quarter-finals, I don’t think there is enough time for the team to recover from the Cosafa tie,” Mpandare said.  Meanwhile, our correspondent has learnt that the Super Eagles Manager Gernot Rohr will rest some of the big players for the match just as the General Coordinator of the squad Patrick Pascal said the Zimbabweans were a strong opposition for Nigeria.  A source close to the team told our correspondent that the likes of Odion Ighalo, Ahmed Musa, Alex Iwobi and William Troost-Ekong would be rested as the coach wants some of the youngsters to prove to him they merit places on the plane to Egypt. “This is a friendly that is important to the coach because he wants to use it to fully assess some of the players he has yet to make his mind on for the Nations Cup.  The likes of Musa and Ighalo are certain to make the squad and he will rest them ahead of the second friendly match which comes up against Senegal,” the source said.  Pascal told our correspondent that the Warriors represent a tough challenge for the Eagles and they would approach the game with all seriousness. “Zimbabwe is one of the countries that will play in the Nations Cup and that means that they are not a small team.  In fact, there are no pushovers in African football again and the Eagles are excited about facing them.  “This is the match we are going to play in Nigeria before we finally travel for the Nations Cup and we are ready to give our best and make our fans happy,” he said.