The immediate past Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) and Chairman of Committee of Vice-Chancellors (CVCs), Prof. Adebiyi Daramola, in this interview with BABATOPE OKEOWO speaks about how nonacademic staff unions have constitutes a cog in the wheel of university administration, his brawl with the anti-graft agencies, university funding and autonomy, among other issues affecting the delivery of education   In your five years’ tenure as the Vice- Chancellor of FUTA, were there some things you should have done, which you did not do? Without being immodest, I came to that seat with a vision. I became the Vice- Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, after having spent 26 years in the university system. Indeed, I knew where the shoe pinches and I went straight for that. In fact, that again is one major reason we achieved so much during my tenure. But, there were other reasons we couldn’t achieve we would have achieved as planned and this has to do with the human factors in the system, which in any way are restricted to FUTA. I want to emphasise here that there are certain elements in Abuja, who for selfish reasons tried to sabotage our efforts by sitting on our papers thereby delaying their approvals for the development of the university system. Here, I am talking about the ministries, the National Universities Commission (NUC) and some certain individuals, who for personal reasons that the organisations might not know anything about, were consistently sabotaging our efforts. For instance, let me stress also that the university for the entire five-year of my tenure didn’t have a single special intervention project from the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund). While many other universities had between three and five project interventions, because I was not ready to play ball as requested, FUTA couldn’t have any. Rather, as a Vice-Chancellor, I was contended with what the agencies and organisations would give us as our dues and which the university is statutorily entitled to. Special intervention is the one that comes along with conditions that institutions are not ready for in the first instance. Some of these interventions involved certain approvals, especially those that will involve sending our faculties and students abroad, which some people decided to sit on simply because we did not do what they expected us to do. How would you describe your experience with other critical stakeholders in the system, especially the workers and students’ unions? Of course, within two months of my assumption of office the workers’ unions embarked on a protest. The then Acting Vice-Chancellor, who served before me had paid the union members certain allowances, but the moment I came on board, they thought I could be easily swayed they started agitating for more money to be paid by the university, but I did not budge given the available funds in the university. But, we dealt with the issues accordingly and some elements in the system were waiting for us at the other end. We had to suspend some of them, who were at home for about six months. But, we gave them conditions when we wanted to take them back, and one of the conditions was that they would never demand for any allowance in the next six months. However, no sooner than they were called back that they started demanding for payment of their allowances. Indeed, some of them accused me of being heady in the process. However, that has come and gone, but what will you suggest on how to deal with unions issues in the university system? In fact, members of the non-teaching unions are the biggest problems and headaches for the any Vice-Chancellor and management in the university system. I mean they are the major clogs in the wheel of progress of university management and what the government should do to address their challenge is to outsource some of the functions of these non-teaching staff members, such as drivers, cleaners and porters. The more the government can outsource them, the better for the system. Secondly, the government should make sure that the staff unions are not federated, because if they are not federated, it would be left for the Governing Council of each university to deal with each union in the system. As someone who has served as Vice- Chancellor and Chairman of Committee of Vice-Chancellors, I realise that apart from the fact that the non-teaching staff members are the biggest problem in the universities, they contribute the least to the operations and development of a university, but still they want to be the most recognised unions. They are the ones that will go and vandalise the powerhouse because they want people to know they are on strike. They will lock the gates and attack members of academic staff, who are going about their academic and research duties, as well as the students, who are the reason why they are in the community. Unfortunately, these set of workers operate and behave like members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). What is your stake about the poor funding of the university system? Well, let me reiterate here that the other major problem confronting the university system is that of gross inadequate funding by the proprietors. The fact is that universities are basically underfunded. The government and the stakeholders need to look at ways to better fund the university system. I sympathise with the government because it has a lot of things competing for the available funds and resources of the country. But, unfortunately for Nigerian universities, we are not well ranked in order to attract international students. If as a university, you are well ranked, you will attract international students, who will be paying in Dollars. And indeed, if the international students are many in number, their fees that will trickle in Dollars will constitute a good income for the system. But, this is not so, instead our students are paying to study in these foreign institutions. Are you of the view that students should pay school fees despite agitation from many stakeholders that education should be free? Honestly, I am a realist. Education is not cheap and the government cannot fund education alone. In Nigeria, we love to hide behind one finger, and that is the anger of operators of the private universities. There are students paying N2.5 million, while some are paying N40,000 to study the same course in different universities. I mean those who are paying, are they not Nigerians? Where is the equity? In fact, public universities have more faculty members and they are the ones paying the lowest and they are the ones that are taught better because of the facilities provided by the government. What is your reaction to the clamour for autonomy in the university system? Of course, autonomy is good development for the university, but basically there is still a problem. There is the problem in the area of students’ school fees. We are in a country where some are paying as high as N1.5 million as school fees, especially in a private university such as Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) to study Law, when some are paying as low as N35,000 in public universities like the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), the University of Ibadan (UI) for the same course. So, you can see what I am talking about. But, despite there are other ways in which the government can look at it again and make the university viable by providing loans and financial support for indigent students to be able to pay. We once toyed with the idea that government should charge fees in the university, but they pegged the school fees not to be more than N200,000, but to give subventions to the universities. The problem is that the children of the poor may not have such amount of money to pay as school fees, but the government should therefore provide another opportunity for indigent students where they could access funds as loans and grants to support their education. Corruption is high the university system, how do you think we can curtail corruption in the system? One of the ways in which we can curtail corruption in the universities is what the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) are already doing. The agencies are working on that. I was with the Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, and he told me that they were working together to ensure that they curtail the excesses of Vice-Chancellors, who want to pilfer the resources of their institutions. But, there is more noise about this than the actual thing that is happening. At the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), they talked of corruption, and they went to EFCC, but at the end of the day, it was a no-case submission and the case was dismissed. Also, at the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), it was the same story of alleged corruption against me and my administration, as the Vice- Chancellor. In fact, any Vice-Chancellor that does not dance to the tune of the workers’ unions in the system is blackmailed with corruption and other funny allegations. That is why there should be sanctions for these unions. In the FUTA’s case, despite the fact that the unions and other members of the university community knew me well; having worked with me and knew that I was transparent in all my transactions and dealings as Vice-Chancellor, yet the unions went ahead to allege that I was corrupt so as to ensure that it will be on record that EFCC made some arrest. Sadly, media trial was all they wanted to achieve and that is why people should be made to pay for what they do because you can’t just destroy other people’s reputation without no just cause and go away with it. It is criminal and should be dealt with accordingly. Apart from the aforementioned areas of lapses in the system, what would you suggest to better the universities? That is the essence of the intelligence arm of government; they are the ones that can actually stop this kind of misdemeanor and aberration in the system. They can through intelligence gathering arrest the problems once and for all. Those elements I talked about are there, whether in the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) or other agencies, it is the intelligence arms of government that needs to work and do the needful. Two universities owned by the Ondo State Government were shut down recently due to protest over school fees, what do think are the probable way out? This is still part of what we have been saying since. I can understand the plight of the Ondo State University of Science and Technology (OSUSTECH), Okitipupa, where the students are paying about N300.000, and Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) where the students are also paying about N200.000, under the same proprietorship. This is still a far cry. So, the Nigerian system is dysfunctional and our education has become dysfunctional. No equity anywhere and when there is injustice, there is bound to be crises. Let us ask ourselves some basic questions; is the fellow attending private university where he is paying N2 million not a Nigerian, whereas another fellow, the same Nigerian is paying N50,000? That is why the pressure is on public universities. It is only those who cannot secure admission into public universities that go to private universities.