Having a higher IQ offers many advantages in society. Scottish investigators have said that a high intelligent quotient (IQ) is associated with a longer life expectancy. According to the findings of the new study published in the British Medical Journal, children with lower IQ scores had a greater likelihood of dying from heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, lung cancer, and stomach cancer as adults. All of these diseases were associated with smoking, and the study showed no association between cancers unrelated to smoking and mortality. Although they didn’t prove it, the investigators suspected that more intelligent people have greater awareness of lifestyle habits such as smoking, which could shorten life expectancy. According to Dr. Gary Small, MD, director of the UCLA Longevity Center at the Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behaviour, if one has hit mid-life, the fellow probably noticed signs of ageing — wrinkles, thinning hair, and maybe a few extra pounds around the hips or belly.  Similarly, the brain is one area of the body that keeps as plump and fat as possible.  The human brain shrinks by about five per cent decade after one hits age 40. Also, the brain contains about 86 billion nerve cells called neurons. Each piece of the brain the size of a speck of sand contains 100,000 neurons all trying to talk to each other through one billion connecting points called synapses, which allows over 100,000 chemical reactions to occur there in the brain every second.  Crucial chemicals called neurotransmitters move across connection points and release their contents into gaps between these synapses. All these connections going on inside the brain are what allow humans to create and retain memories, form ideas and thoughts, experience emotions, and even express your unique personality. The study included more than 75,000 volunteers who were born in 1936 and took a standardised intelligence test in 1947. Cause of death was confirmed in more than 25,000 of them.