Students of Edo State Polytechnic in Usen have been warned against involvement in cultism and other anti-social activities that could result to their expulsion from the polytechnic and truncate their education. The Rector, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, gave the advice during the matriculation of fresh students admitted into the institution, where he challenged them to be diligent and work hard to distinguish themselves in their academic work and positively impact the society. Falodun, who stated this at the 17th matriculation of the institution, disclosed that no fewer than 1,140 students undertook the matriculation oath of the polytechnic for 2018/2019 academic session. The Rector said that the institution had recorded tremendous change in the last one year due to the support of the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, noting: “We are delighted by the fatherly role played by the governor in repositioning the polytechnic. With this, we are able to attract local and international partnerships to develop the institution.” He said: “The management has zero tolerance for cultism and other anti-social behaviour. Our gratitude also goes to TETFund for training, capacity building of academic and non-academic staff, as well as for the provision of physical infrastructure in the institution.” The Rector charged the matriculating students to exploit their stay in the polytechnic by concentrating on their studies and developing life-long study habits that would help them to cope with the challenges of life. He noted that several developments are ongoing on the campus, which has continued to at-tract students to the institution, stressing that “we are making a lot of changes as the polytechnic now has new programmes that were established recently. Some of the new programmes, including the Mass Communication are already doing really well.” In another development, the Edo State Traffic Control and Management Agency (EDSTMA) has tasked the students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) and other pedestrians in the Ugbowo axis of Benin, the state capital, to take advantage of the newly constructed pedestrian bridge in the area to mitigate against incessant killings on the road.