The Rt. Revd. James Olusola Odedeji, the Bishop of Diocese of Lagos West, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), speaks on the state of the nation, 2019 general election, governance and insecurity, among other issues. TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports   What is your take on the state of the nation? This country is facing a lot challenges; security, economy, the environment is very harsh. There are hostility, hatred and deep-seated anger because when a poor man cannot eat, the rich man would not be able to sleep. We have a lot of vagabonds, wayward children around because of joblessness. A lot of people are out of jobs; a lot of youths have graduated and there is nothing for them to do and an empty hand is devil’s workshop. These are the problems which we have and the only way is to see God as our refuge. We have tried all other areas and we think there was no help and that is why the church is calling on the nation and the entire populace that let us try the power that cannot fail. How do you see the security challenges in the country? It is becoming an understatement to say that our country is insecure. The Boko Haram insurgency in the North-East is still with us. The Fulani herders and farmers clashes in the Middle-Belt and other areas still persist. The armed banditry is all over the states like Kaduna, Zamfara, Sokoto, Katsina and even Niger. The southern states are facing the menace of armed robbery and kidnapping on our roads. Even though the crimes so listed are the ones under the purview of the Nigerian Police, but from all indications, the Nigerian Police has not been able to cope, hence the need to drag the military into the issues of internal affairs. We make bold to say that even with the Army, the Air Force and Navy coming to compliment the effort of the Police, crime is still on the increase in our nation.  We, therefore, wish to use this medium to call on the government to reconsider the recommendations of 2014 National Conference, as touching on the need to have state police. Also, the instrument of dialogue with stakeholders, especially the Boko Haram leaders, the Fulani leaders as well as farmers and the state governments involved must not be considered an aberration. Some international organisations may be used as negotiators as the use of force is gradually failing to yield maximum result. Do you agreed with the Presiding Pastor of Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare that the nation is being taken over by terrorist? You don’t need anybody to tell you that is what is happening. The news we hear now is terrifying. The news we hear now from every angle is terrifying, not even in the North in the again, everywhere. You can even smell violence in the air. Those of us who are grassroots people; we go round. We see at every junction hefty men in the morning around 9am, 10am doing nothing. The stomach we carry around will not agree that I ate yesterday, it want to eat again today and it want to even be sure of tomorrow. Children are asking their father what to eat; nothing to give to them. The world is characterised with evil and that is why they should do something urgently. But to us, we feel that a lot of our leaders are clueless in the matter because you can’t look at your children crying, suffering and you will feel that all is correct; all is not correct. What is your take on the state of economy? Nigerian economy is still sick and if necessary measures are not taken, we might still experience another round of recession, God forbid. With all the monetary and fiscal policies in place, if the issue of power is not solved permanently, good economic footing may continue to elude our nation. With the huge resources being expended on power generation for instance, no impact has been felt. Nigeria, with a population of about 200 million people is still struggling to provide between 3,000 and 7,000 megawatts of electricity, which is grossly inadequate or our economic development. Virtually all industries have sought for alternative locations outside Nigeria because of shortage of power. Even our artisans and technicians who can as well drive the economy with their low and medium capacity productivity, have jumped into strange professions like Okada riding due to their inability to source alternative power and afford the cost of fueling generators. The low power generation has, therefore, affected our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in no small way. We want to advise the government to solicit help from developed world around us to lend us the skill and necessary technology transfer, to solve our power problem once and for all. Some Nigerians seem to be dissatisfied with the state of education and health in Nigeria. How do you think the issues in the sectors can be addressed? The level of illiteracy in Nigeria is still very high. The percentage of the yearly budget being allocated to the educational sector is such that nothing meaningful could be achieved in the sector. There is a gross infrastructural decay, as most government schools are highly dilapidated, with zero teaching aids. Most of our school graduates are unable to defend the certificates issued to them. The teachers are not motivated to perform to their optimum level, as other private businesses, to keep them afloat within our already battered economy, will not allow for a full concentration. Education in Nigeria has been placed in the hands of entrepreneurs, with private schools emerging from every available space of Nigerian territory. Our people in the academics including Vice Chancellors prefer to send their children to private universities as against retaining them in the public institutions where they are holding sway. It is grossly unfortunate. We call on the government to address this decay, even if it will necessitate a declaration of emergency in the sector. If we fail to get it right now, there may be no future for our nation. On the issue of health, not only that Nigerians no longer believe in our health facilities, including our teaching hospitals, but even the drivers of our economy will not risk being treated by our hospitals in Nigeria. The reason is not far-fetched, our hospitals are not well equipped, there are gross shortages of drugs and to cap it all, there is the problem of personnel especially qualified doctors, due to brain drain presently confronting the sector. It is high time our National Assembly put in place a bill to curtail medical trips overseas by our elected politicians. If a bill to this effect is passed into law, successive governments will be duty bound to equip our hospitals to the standard required by the World Health Organisation.  Lagos West Diocese has been involved in the mobilization, sensitisation and observation of elections in Nigeria every four years since 2007. What is your take about the 2019 general elections? Prior to this year elections, we organised a gubernatorial debate for the candidates contesting to be governor of Lagos State. We brought the men into the church as a way of emphasising that they were making their pledge before the Almighty God and to expose their plans and manifestos to the electorate in other to make informed choices. During the elections, we deployed 300 well trained observers to the 20 local government areas and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) and despite the huge cost involved, we did not seek, nor obtain any form of support whatsoever from any quarter.  To the glory of God, 2019 general elections has come and gone with winners emerging both at the presidential, National Assembly, gubernatorial as well as States’ Assembly elections. However, there are lessons to be learned from our elections in the course of the year. There are challenges bordering on logistics, security of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) personnel and electorate, over militarisation of our elections, vote buying and selling, god-fatherism, pre and post-election matters, pronouncements from our courts as touching on issuance of interlocutory injunctions to mention just a few. No wonder while some local and international observers adjudged the election as free and fair, others concluded it fell short of all democratic best practices.  As we are preparing for another term of four years, we appeal to our leaders, particularly the President, governors as well as members of the National Assembly to ensure that they rule with the fear of God. They must tackle the hunger and the suffering in the land. They must be careful not to allow their personal interest to override the general public interest, in the real sense of the word. Next week Wednesday, May 29, President Muhammuadu Buhari and 29 governors will take oath of office. What is your advice to public office holders at federal and state levels? They should be sensitive. You know as leaders, you should be sensitive to your subject. Even as a Bishop, when I am talking to my people, I am looking at them. When I noticed that they are feeling uneasy, I look for a way of succor and comforting. Today, many people cannot eat they want to eat; they are only eating what they see. And so it has gone to a point when people are tensed, and so they should be sensitive. It is a psychological work; as a father in the house, you come in and all the children are looking morose; something should cross your mind that ‘what is happening? What has happened? How can it be averted and how can you make living for your people?’ It is a simple way of doing things. So, as they are coming in, they should know that God has assisted them because they were not the only contestants. There were various contestants; for them to have emerged is saying that God has something for them to do. And until they think in that perceptive, not much can be done. Lagos State governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode will bow out of office next week on May 29; what is your advice to the incoming government? Each succeeding elected governor since the beginning of the fourth Republic in 1999 had tried to outperform his predecessor. The incumbent Governor Ambode is not excluded from attaining this feat.
While appreciating the outgoing governor for a job well done, we want to passionately appeal to the incoming governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu to continue the current good works when he take over the reign of power.