…as workers boo SSG  Kogi State chapter of the Nigeria Labor Congress (NLC) yesterday advised Governor Yahaya Bello to, as a matter of urgency, clear the seven to 30 months’ salary arrears being owed the state civil servants or forget his second term bid.  Chairman, Nigeria Labor Congress (NLC) in the state, Onuh Edoka, handed down this warning during the 2019 Workers’ Day celebration held in Lokoja. Edoka insisted that the state civil servants, considering their numerical strength, had the capacity to bury the governor’s second term ambition, if nothing was done to clear their outstanding salary arrears. While warning the Independent National Electoral commission (INEC) to ensure civil servants votes counted this time around, the NLC Chairman maintained that the state workforce was the only powerful organ that can determine the next governor of the state in the November 2 governorship election.  “The next governor of Kogi State will surely be determined by the voting strength of workers. We are ever ready for the coming election and we will ensure that our votes count for who would take care of us. “Let me equally urge Governor Yahaya Bello to clear all our salary arrears before the November 2 gubernatorial election, we are saying this because we won’t want to be blamed of any electoral misfortune in the state.”  The labour leader, who pleaded with the Federal Government to release the N30.8 billion balance of the N50.8 bailout fund applied by the state government, said the funds would positively impact the lives of the state workers. Edoka, who commended the state governor’s good intention on the workers screening, blamed the several months’ salaries’ arrears on the phony manner the exercise was handled. He said the state Auditor- General, Mr. Yakubu Okala and the local government Auditor-General, Alhaji Ahmed Ododo, who headed the screening committee, were responsible for the pathetic situation of workers in the state.  The two, he said, compounded the faith of workers during the screening exercises, by messing up  the whole exercise, thereby confusing the government.  “Workers in the state are being owed between seven and 30 months depending on when they get clearance from the screening committee members. He therefore called for the sack of the entire members of the screening committee, which he said had brought about such confusion and a delay in salary payments to those categories of workers,” he said .  Reacting on the refusal of President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the bill for the completion of Ajaokutal Steel Company, Edoka said the steel company was a national asset, which should not be discarded in the name of concession. He lamented the mundane role allegedly played by the world powers to frustrate the takeoff of the company.  “For their own selfish reason, world powers like the United States of America, Britain and other European countries, have continued to frustrate all efforts geared towards revamping the company and successive governments over the years have not demonstrated enough political will towards its completion, he added.”  However, there was a mild drama during the celebration, when the Secretary to the State Government, (SSG), Mrs. Folashade Ayoade Arike, was booed by the workers when she called to deliver the state governor’s address.  The SSG, who represented the governor, was interrupted shouts of ‘Wooooooo,’ coming from the crowd of civil servants in the pavilion. It took the plea of labour leaders for the protesting civil servants to be calmed before she could deliver the governor’s address. She said the state government was not unaware on the salary arrears owed workers in the state, but that the government would ensure that the workers were paid their arrears.  On the thirty thousand minimum wage, the SSG said the government had taken its stand to key into the new salary regime