For the umpteenth time, Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and some top prominent sons of Kano have waded into the feud between Kano State Governor, Umar Abdullahi Ganduje and the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, which has since taken a more dangerous dimension.  Dangote’s wading into the issue between the two gladiators was not the first time as he was alleged to have settled the rift between members of the state Assembly and the Emir, when the Assembly purportedly wanted to remove the Emir sometimes last year.  Our Correspondent reliably gathered that this time around, Dangote intervened following moves by the state government to create additional four emirate councils in the state. He also was said to have spoken to the governor on the move to probe the emir’s financial dealings from 2013 to 2019.  An impeccable source at the Government House, Kano, who did not want his name in print, said Dangote was sighted yesterday morning, where he convened a meeting between the governor and the emir.  Already, the bill to create another four emirate councils of Gaya, Rano, Bichi and Karaye, was said to have scale the second reading at the state House of Assembly. In the same vein, the Assembly was said to have used the bill as their bargaining power to start moving to create life pension for Speaker of the House and his Deputy, which would also cover foreign medical trips.  The Assembly’s premises at the Audu Bako Secretariat, was yesterday manned by armed security personnel, who were preventing people from gaining access to the complex, while hundreds of protesters who were against or in support of the action were seen around the Assembly premises, chanting slogans. All efforts to speak with the Speaker, Hon. Kabiru Alhassan Rirum, proved abortive as he refused to pick his call nor answer messages sent to his cell phone. It is relief for the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, as the state House of Assembly has dropped its investigation of alleged misappropriation of funds belonging to the Kano Emirate Council, which he presides over. FELIX NWANERI reports Many had thought that history was about to repeat itself with… In “Politics” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday said that the federal government was proposing a $2billion investment to ensure Lagos-Kano rail project was effective for movement of cargo from Apapa port to Kano He, however, expressed optimism that the Lagos and Kano state economic collaboration would bring about the needed prosperity… In “News” Africa’s leading industrialist, Alhaji Aliko Dangote has an advice for the committee set up by the Kano State House of Assembly to probe a bribery allegation against its former Speaker: ‘Don’t waste your time, it’s all falsehood’. Dangote Group spokesman, Mr. Tony Chiejina said the allegation has no foundation whatsoever… In “News”