   Tume took a deep breath and exhaled loudly. He raised his eyes and met Ben’s. Slowly, he stood up, kicked back the chair, took some steps towards Ben and engaged him in a bear hug. “Why did you do that? Why did you stick out your neck for me?” He asked Ben. “When Tami told me her story, I realised that my dear Nessa may not survive it if the truth comes out. Yes, my dear Nessa! You know very well that those two beautiful ladies you want to turn against each other are part of my beautiful growing up years. Whenever I sneaked out of the house, they covered my ass. They still mean so much to me,” Ben said, his voice thick with emotion. “Thank you bro. I’m looking forward to the day I’ll repay you. You are just too good,” he whispered to Ben and released him. “Don’t thank me. Just be good to Nessa, she needs you more than you think. She’s going through a lot of stress. I’ll need to talk to her later. I need to check on a patient,” Dr. Ben said and left. ***** Tami was sitting up in bed. She was calm. She recalled what happened in the past nine months and shivered. “After everything, the baby died. Hmmmmmmmmmm! If he had lived, what would be doing now? Dancing? Calling family and friends to come and celebrate with me? Hmmmmmmm! So I have buried a child? This is a grief I should share with my bestie, Nessa, but unfortunately, we’ll grieve in different ways. I think the baby died for a reason. That’s the punishment for Tume and I. I’m sorry Nessa. I really am,” she told herself tears ran down her checks. She was grateful she came out of it all alive. She had thought she would die. BEN! That dashing young boy of yesteryear had aged into a handsome man. At the point she needed someone to confide in, he was there -attentive and reassuring. He still loved her. He said so. “Is that possible?” she asked herself and rolled her eyes. How could someone who she told her darkest secret-horrible one at that- profess love to her? Could it be real? Or was Ben only trying to allay her fears? Could Ben really be in love with her? How she wish she could confide in Nessa! Talk of the angel and he appeared. “Tami how are you? Listen, I need to tell you something. I told Tume and Nessa that I was responsible for your pregnancy. I needed to save their marriage…”
Tami, stunned, stared at him. “You what? OMG!” She stared at Ben and suddenly, the import of what he said sank in. For a long time, she had been feeling like she’d been bearing a burden akin to Christian’s in John Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress. All of a sudden, she felt light, the burden gone. Tears ran down her cheeks and he moved closer and embraced her. He allowed her to cry on his shoulders. “Thank you Ben. I’m short of words to express my appreciation. Thank you. You’re God sent…” Ben kissed her cheeks, tasting tears. “I’ll do anything for you Tami. The day you walked into my office with Nessa about a year ago, I realised I had really not gotten over my feelings for you. I loved you Tami…I still do. Let’s forget your dalliance with Tume…” Tami relaxed. The tears ceased. She pulled away from Ben and searched his face and saw only love and concern. She raised her face and opened her mouth to say something but he smothered her with kisses. That very moment, Tume and Nessa entered the ward. Nessa coughed discreetly and they pulled apart. “Hope we are not disrupting anything? Babe, so you could hide this from me? I never believed that Ben could make you keep something away from me. But I’m happy that you found love and joy,” Nessa said and moved towards her friend. Immediately Tami looked at her friend’s face, she saw love. Nessa still loved her. She stretched her hands and they hugged. “I’m sorry babes. I did whatever I did for love. Please forgive me,” Tami told her friend. Of course, the two men in the room understood what she meant but Nessa didn’t. “Forgive you? Can I ever get angry with you?” Nessa replied her. “I think we should leave the girls to gist…” Ben began and the two friends giggled. “The men should go and gossip then,” Nessa said and they all laughed. The men walked out of the room. “Bros, I really still can’t understand why you did what you did in there. Why did you get me off the hook?” Tume and Ben were back in the latter’s office. “Tume, you may have forgotten but I don’t forget the good deeds. Any time I see you, I remember that day, years ago, when Tiller the Bully nearly got me killed. The day a car rammed into me when I dashed across the road to get my football from him. I would have died if you ran away like others. You didn’t. You got adults to take me to the hospital. I’ll always look out for you,” Ben told him. Tume stared at him as the incident crawled back into his mind. “You also remember that crazed monkey incident? Each time I remember it, I shudder. I had a feeling that I would have been rendered ‘balless’ if that ape got to me that day. If you hadn’t the presence of mind to remember that monkeys love banana…” Ben said, trying to keep a straight face. You wouldn’t blame him. It was one of those harrowing incidents that would make you laugh before you realise the inherent dangers. **** Tume’s mind travelled years, back in time. They were in the primary school then. Between their homes and their school was a very quiet tree-lined street. Even on a very hot day, the street was usually cool and the trees provided shade for the many children who thronged there to pick over ripe fruits which usually littered the street. Posted boldly on the gate of one of houses on the street was the warning, “Beware of dangerous animals. Keep off”. Of course, the barking of dogs inside the building kept the children off that gate each time they went there to pick fruits. The gate was perpetually locked and they seldom saw anybody enter or leave the building. It happened that the owner of the house kept animals as pets. Among them were dogs, parrots, ostriches, eagles, two monkeys, and some other birds in cages. Of course the children thought the dogs were the only pets in the high-walled building. One hot afternoon, the children had gone to pick fruits, not knowing that danger was lurking behind the gate of that house. Of course, they had wondered why the dogs were barking furiously. Then, they heard raised voices. The children, inquisitive as usual, abandoned their fruit-hunting activities and stared at the locked gate, wondering what the din in there was about. They were still standing sentry few metres from the gate when something jumped over the high fence and landed few yards away from where Ben and Tume were standing. The children shrieked in fright. There was pandemonium as the children raced in different directions. One of the monkeys had escaped from the cage. As the animal jumped into the street, everyone, both young and old, raced for dear life. Ben and Tume raced in the same direction. The monkey chased some pupils a short distance and jumped on a tree. By that time, the owners of the monkey had opened the gate of the house and rushed out in chase of their pet. The monkey jumped from tree to tree while its owners thought of the best way to catch the escaping animal. Suddenly, the monkey jumped down in front of a young woman. The woman shrieked, dropped her handbag and made to run but tripped. The monkey picked the handbag and slung it over its shoulders. The lady quickly picked herself off the ground and made to run but the monkey reached out and grabbed her dress, tearing off the lady’s blouse. The screams from the people and the footsteps of its owners who were few paces away from the monkey disconcerted it momentarily. It was all the lady needed. She took off half naked without her shoes and bag. As the monkey noticed that it’s object of attention was running away, it made to go after her but suddenly changed direction, faced Ben and Tume and gave them a wild chase. The children screamed as they ran. “Throw it away! Throw it away. THROW IT AWAY!” Tume was shouting at Ben who was running after him. “What? Throw what away?” Ben asked, breathlessly. “Monkeys like bananas. Throw the bananas away or stop following me,” Tume screamed. It was then Ben remembered he had some fingers of banana in his school bag and was holding one. He quickly threw the one in his hand away, a little to his left where some people were standing. The monkey took few more paces after them and jumped in the direction of the fallen banana. The people there scattered in different directions, howling… *** That was many years ago. Each time Tume remembered that incident, he would go into a fit of laughter. He couldn’t help it now, more especially as Ben couldn’t help laughing. Laughter wracked their bodies. After a while, he cleared his throat, opened his mouth to say something and froze as he looked at the door… *****  Let’s continue this journey on Sunday! ##### •Send your observations to:   julietbumah@gmail.com