  President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, yesterday, congratulated Mrs. Funke Egbemode, on her reelection as the President of the Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE), during the Guild’s 13th annual conference in Lagos, at the weekend. Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja, also congratulated other members of the newly elected Executive Council of the Guild. He noted that Egbemode had not only surpassed expectations in the last two years but has taken the body of gatekeepers in the media a notch higher in growth and excellence.  Saraki said: “My confidence in your ability to effectively shoulder the responsibilities of the office two years ago has again been reinforced by the unanimous decision of your colleagues to return you and some of your executive members unopposed.  “You have indeed shown that hardworking women can shine like stars in a predominantly male profession. I am proud of you and I know that many women in the profession have a lot to learn from your humility, resourcefulness, integrity and sterling performance in office so far,” he stated.  He called on Egbemode and the newly inaugurated executive to consolidate on the achievements recorded and work to reposition the NGE as a critical partner in the nation’s developmental efforts. In his own message, the Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, described the re-election of Egbemode as as a return for astute leadership and dogged commitment to journalism excellence in Nigeria.  Ganduje also hailed the emergence of Malam Umar Sa’idu Tudun Wada, Managing Director, Kano State Radio Corporation as Deputy President of the NGE. He said that Egbemode’s re-election was borne out of her remarkable and worthy contributions to best journalism practice in the country, particularly during her first tenure in office.  “I am thrilled by her uncommon commitment to the advancement of journalism and adherence to the ethics of the profession. Yourre-election must certainly be hinged on your leadership qualities and successesyouhaverecordedas a purebred professional, ‘’ the statement adds.  Ganduje also described the emergence of Malam Umar Sa’idu Tudun Wada, an ace broadcaster as Vice President of the Guild as clear testimony to his astute leadership trait and prudent knowledge in the management of affairs of people and equally congratulates Ibrahim Garba, Kano Bureau Chief of ThisDay Newspaper as chairman of the correspondent Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). Also speaking, the Kano Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and the State Commissioner for Information, Mallam Muhammad Garba described the overwhelming reelection of Egbemode as as a thumbs up for her commitment for the country’s media growth and stability.  The position of the Kano NUJ was handed down by the Council Chairman, Comrade Abbas Ibrahim, who said decades ago the sterling qualities of Egbemode in the media industry showed that she would lead the nation Journalism practice vis-à-vis media out of its heavy challenges.