The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, yesterday, discharged and acquitted a cousin to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Robert Azibaola, of alleged complicity in $40 million contract scam.
The court premised its judgement on ground that the prosecution failed to establish that the defendant and his firm, One Plus Holdings Nigeria Limited, were involved in money laundering.
The trial judge, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, held that the prosecution failed to prove essential elements of the two-count charge it preferred against Azibaola and his firm, beyond every reasonable doubt.
The court equally noted that key witnesses, including the former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd.), who allegedly released the fund to the defendants, was not brought to testify in the matter.
The Federal Government had earlier slammed a nine-count charge on Azibaola bothering on money laundering to the tune of $40 million, but the court, on March 29, struck out seven counts, asking the defendant to defend himself in the remaining two counts.
Dismissing the remaining two counts yesterday, the judge held that the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt.
The judge held that the prosecution failed to debunk the explanation offered by the defence.
The court also held that the prosecution failed to puncture the defence’s explanation that the description of the payment of the $40 million by the Office of NSA as “supply of tactical communication equipment” was a disguise for the real purpose of the money as it was the usual practice in security management.
According to the judge, the defence, in the course of the trial, adduced oral and documentary evidence that the money was actually meant to be paid to Niger Delta militants who were in the business of oil bunkering in order to achieve peace in the region and boost oil revenue in the country.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had slammed Azibaola and his company with a nine-count charge bordering on money laundering to the tune of $40 million.
He was alleged to have received the said sum from the detained former NSA without any contract agreement.
He pleaded not guilty to the charge and consequently filed a no case submission after the prosecution called all his witnesses.
The court, however, dismissed the no case submission and asked the defendant to enter defense in the two counts remaining charge.
In the charge, marked FHC/ABJ/CR/ 113/2016, EFCC alleged that Aziboala had, while being the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) and a signatory to the bank account of One Plus Holdings Nig. Ltd., on or about September 8, 2014, took possession and converted the sum of $39,999,958 out of the $40 million, and transferred same to the domiciliary account of the firm with the bank.
It maintained that the defendants reasonably ought to have known that the fund was part of the proceeds of an unlawful activity by Dasuki, adding that they had, by their action, committed an offence contrary to section 15(2) (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 as amended in 2012 and punishable under section 15(3) and (4) of the same Act.
Meanwhile, EFCC has described as unfortunate the acquittal of Azibaola.
The EFCC, in a statement issued by its spokesman, Tony Orilade, expressed concern that despite the weight of evidence brought before the court and witnesses presented, Justice Dimgba dismissed the case.
“Invariably, the Commission’s legal team will be studying the judgement thoroughly and will be taking necessary actions to appeal it as we hope that the appellate court shall view the merit of the prosecution and do justice to the case,” Orilade said.