Hon. Jude Ifeanyi Umenajego was the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the Anambra House of Assembly election into Onitsha South 2 Constituency. In this interview with OKEGWO KENECHUKWU he speaks on some topical political issues and even claimed the election was massively rigged by vote buying  The election has come and gone but the scars are still there. Can you share with us your experience during the poll? Thank you. I can say it was impressive but also sad because I was robbed of my victory. I know vividly that I was the choice of the majority of the constituents, but the election was also marred by massive irregularity by the INEC officials and the members of APGA. They both connived with one another to produce results that didn’t reflect the wish of the people.  As a lawyer you knows that the burden of proof lies on he who alleges. How would you prove this claim before the election petition tribunal? Well that might be letting the cat out of the bag but one thing that was clear is the open vote buying, intimidations, over voting and even snatching of ballot boxes. The figure was also massively manipulated. I make bold to say that my party, the PDP, won overwhelmingly during the Presidential and National Assembly elections in my constituency which is a clear indication that the people have dumped APAGA.  You will agree with me that the Nation’s judiciary is at cross roads with the nation’s political system, a development most people believe is degenerating into a state of anarchy. Having this in mind do you strongly believe you will be able to get justice at the end of the day? As a lawyer one has to strongly believe that the judiciary is still the last hope of the common man and if we don’t the society will degenerate into anarchy.  There was this belief in some quarters that your party was more interested in National Assembly elections in Anambra than in the House of Assembly and that to some extent made the difference. How would you react to this? Well I don’t agree with you because my party presented and sponsored candidates in all the elections. It was also on record that APGA mobilized people to vote massively for APC in Anambra State. This was also a strategy by the APGA government to fight PDP and particularly to oppose the vice presidential bid of former governor Peter Obi by the incumbent governor of the state Chief Willie Obiano. It was clear that the governor came out openly to campaign for APC but still the people of Anambra State voted massively for PDP.  As a new entrant into the main stream of Anambra politics what would you say about the political future of the Anambra youths who may wish to make career in politics? I can say there are positive and bleak prospects for our younger generations not only in Anambra State but in Nigeria as a whole. There are positive prospects because the people have adopted democracy as a means of change. It is bleak in the sense that the level of awareness and participation is next to nothing. How can a people who need development degenerate to a level of voting for a candidate for a token as low as N500 yet they will demand for the provision of infrastructures such as good roads, water, free education etc. It shows lack of awareness and moral decay in the society.  Yes what is your take on your presidential candidate’s place of birth and origin? Well it sounds absurd but stupid. I say so because when they were all in APC together Atiku was a Nigerian. He was also a Nigerian as Comptroller of the Nigerian Customs Service, a Nigerian when he became the Vice President of this country but suddenly became a Cameroonian when he won an election and his mandate was stolen. Even if there was a plebiscite in whatever year and they joined as a region, nobody can say he is not a Nigerian. The truth is that Buhari government is finding it extremely difficult to hand over power but they have no choice. This is a moment of trial to the Nigerian judiciary and if by omission or commission there was a miscarriage of justice this country is bound to go up in flames. Hon. Jude Umenajego was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for Onitsha South 11 state constituency of Anambra State in the 2019 general election. In this interview with KENECHUKWU OKEGWO, he speaks on the polls and issues concerning the judiciary   The elections have come and gone, but… In “Politics” Anambra State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, in this interview with OKEY MADUFORO, speaks on the emergence of a former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, as the vice presidential candidate of the PDP and the party’s chances in the 2019 general elections, among… In “Politics” Obiano, Nwoye, Obaze, Chidoka in close race INEC, police assure Anambrarians on credible polls Election, litmus test for INEC, security agencies –PDP       After months of campaign, lobbying and wide consultation across the nook and cranny of Anambra State for votes, the popularity of the candidates will be… In “News”