…confirmed by the Police Council The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Abubakar Adamu, has promised to re-organize the Police Force for efficiency and effectiveness. He said that was in order to face squarely issues of banditry, kidnapping, insurgency and general insecurity across the country. Adamu stated this shortly after being confirmed by the Police Council during its meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. Adamu was appointed as acting IGP on January 15, 2019 to succeed Ibrahim Idris, who retired after the mandatory retirement age of 60 years. Speaking to State House Correspondents after the meeting, the IGP said he had briefed the council on the security situation in the country and the efforts the force was making in addressing the situation. According to him, they were satisfied with what “we are putting in place or have put in place to address the security challenges. After the presentation, I was confirmed as the IGP. “I was ushered in and I briefed the council on the security situation in the country and the efforts we are putting in place or have put in place to address the security challenges. After the presentation, I was confirmed as the IGP,” he noted. The Police boss explained that his confirmation by the Police Council was a huge task to the entire force to put in more energy in helping to address the security situation in the country.He said: “What it means for us is that we have been given a huge task to make sure that we provide security within the country and make the country crimefree, which means that we have re-doubled our efforts. “Whatever strategy we have put in place, we have to look at it, and restrategize day in, day out, to make sure that the insecurity in the country goes down to the barest minimum. We have to look at our strategy and re-strategize and also look at our personnel to re-organize the way our system is structured, identify the right personnel in the right places to have them do the job. So, it requires re-strategizing for us to be able to dig deep into what is happening in the North West, so as to deal with the situation squarely.” Speaking further, Adamu noted that he was sure that the security agencies within the country were capable of dealing with the situation. “What we need to do is just to re-strategize and then face the criminals squarely.” The Nigeria Police Council is made up of 40 members, namely the President, the state governors, the IGP and the Chairman of the Police Service Commission. The current Chairman of the Council, Musiliu Smith, was also at the meeting with most of the governors also present. Governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade and the governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, who were joined by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, told reporters that all members in the council were unanimous that Adamu, in acting capacity, performed creditably. Section 27 of 1999 Constitution of Nigeria, as amended, states that the “Nigeria Police Council shall comprise the following members – (a) the President, who shall be the Chairman; (b) the Governor of each State of the Federation; (c) the Chairman of the Police Service Commission; and (d) the Inspector-General of Police. Section 28 of the same Constitution states the functions of the Council to include, amongst others, that “ the Nigeria Police Council shall include – (a) the organisation and administration of the Nigeria Police Force and all other matters relating thereto (not being matters relating to the use and operational control of the Force or the appointment, disciplinary control and dismissal of members of the Force); (b) the general supervision of the Nigeria Police Force; and (c) advising the President on the appointment of the Police.”