Former Director General of the defunct National Sports Commission (NSC), Chief Patrick Ekeji, has said Athletics South Africa has a strong case to appeal the recent Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS) ruling on the appeal brought by Olympic Games 800m women champion, Caster Semenya, against the recent ruling of the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF).  The CAS judgement uphold the initial decision of the IAAF for athletes with differences in sexual development (DSDs), who are usually born with internal testis, will have to reduce their testosterone to below five nmol/L for at least six  months if they want to compete internationally all distances from 400m to a mile.  The surprise verdict was announced by CAS on Wednesday after three arbitrators had spent more than two months deliberating over the comp l e x a n d highly c o n – t e n – t i o u s case. S e – m e – n y a , with the support from ASA, is already considering the option of appealing the judgement at a Swiss Court and Ekeji said they have a strong line of defence. “Though CAS has ruled yet I believe Athletics South Africa has a strong case on appeal to Swiss Court of Appeals.  This is a clear case of discrimination veiled in sunglasses,” Ekeji said. “In my opinion, both IAAF and CAS are wrong. I see their verdict and order to Semenya as reverse doping. In other words, they encourage her to dope herself so she can now under perform. What tragedy and travesty of justice.  “Is Semenya God? Did she create herself? Did she break any existing anti-doping rule? And even with all these, she would not be a champion if she has not been in the tutelage of good coaches.  “She is just like Messi, Ronaldo, in football, or Tiger Woods in Golf or any other exceptionally talented   child in sport. This decision is a challenge to God.” The IAAF, which welcomed the news, said its policy would come into place on May 8. Meanwhile, Olympic chief, Thomas Bach said on Saturday he had sympathy for Caster Semenya but respected the CAS decision that means the South African athlete will have to reduce her testosterone levels to compete.