The Easter holiday is over and anxiety has set in as parents prepare their wards to resume school for resumption. DEBORAH OCHENI reports   As the schools resume, parents are prepared to brace up to the challenges that come with school resumption. Some complained that they are not ready owing to the reality of the nation’s economy. The Parents
For Folashade Popoola, it’s not going to be an easy task, especially as it concerns their feeding. “We thank God for making us parents with responsibility but it’s not easy because we will pay school fees and still make provision for what children will eat in school. Their feeding pattern has to change now that school has resumed. While children were on holiday, they feed on whatever is available because we are home together but it’s a different thing altogether now.
“My style of cooking has to change now because we need to cook what will be presentable and to also buy snacks that will accompany the main meal. It’s not easy but we thank God because the expenses of this term is far less as compared to first term that we are compelled to change uniform, lunch bag, school bag and textbooks. All that is before us this term is school fees and the food they will take to school .”
A father of one child, who simply identified himself as Eneojo, said he is not finding it easy to care for his only child.
“I have a son who is just a year plus and I am not finding it funny. This sudden resumption is like a nightmare living no much time for adequate preparation. Decent schools in Abuja cost so much but then one still has to try living up to responsibilities; I really wonder how those who have many children are coping.”
Reuben Sabo said she is not under pressure because she prepared ahead of time for her children resumption.
“It’s a joyful thing for our children to go back to school after a very short break. I have four children and they are all resuming on Monday. The time we spent together during the Easter holiday was worthwhile.”
Speaking on the challenges that come with school resumption, Sabo said he didn’t count it a challenge paying his children’s school fees.
“Paying my children school fees is not a challenge to me because they attend school that I can afford. I make provision for their next fees before they go on holiday and that makes it very easy for me”, he added.
For Johnson Idoko, parenting comes with a lot of cost because even as he is lucky to have his children in schools that the directors are considerate and give grace of more time to pay off school fees, truth remains, you are owing and you must pay no matter how long it takes.
“Parenting comes with cost, even if the school director gives you the privilege of not paying as at when due, one still has to pay later on. Aside school fees, it’s is a season of buying more socks and shoes, text books and other things that my children will need in school because it’s my desire to meet the needs of my children and have them appear presentable and outstanding among their peers. My case is even a peculiar one because whatever I buy must be in four to satisfy my four children.”
“I was very careful with expenses during Easter celebration because I know children will soon go back to school. So, we have already saved money for their school fees and the rest. The poverty level in this country is high but one has to prioritize on what is important and our children’s education tops in our priority scale.” Adeola Kadiri said. Students
Ogbene Sunday, a JSS 3 student of LEA Kurudu said she expects that her teachers should concentrate and teach them only things that are stated in the JSS 3 syllabus so that they can come out successful as they prepare for junior WAEC.
“My expectation from teachers this term is for them to focus and teach us subjects that are stipulated in the JSS3 syllabus because we are preparing for junior WAEC. Teaching us what will come out in the exams will help us to pass our exams.”
Confidence Ogbu, an SS1 student said teachers should adopt modern means of teaching.
“Teachers are doing great job but some of them need to adopt modern teaching techniques in order to make learning easier for students” he said.
Precious Ajigo, a 4-year-old Nursery 3 girl is excited to go back to school because of the snacks she will enjoy in school.
“I am happy to go to school because my mother will buy biscuit and caprisonne for me”.
Sam Eze, primary 4 pupil said he is happy to go to school as he missed Tolu his friend. “I want to go to school so that I can see my friend Tolu. I missed him during the holiday because Tolu and his father went to their village to celebrate Easter”.
For Angel Shalom, it’s a different thing altogether. Rather than going to school, she prefers to sleep at home.
“I don’t want to go to school because my teacher will not let me sleep in school. I have been sleeping at home since the school vacated without any disturbance. My mum will not allow me to sleep again because of school. I hate school.” The Teachers
A teacher, who simply identified herself as Mrs. Rahmat of Gudmerc Academy, said she wished the holiday lasted longer.
“School has resumed again but I really wished the holiday lasted longer so that we can have enough rest but it’s a very short holiday and I still thank God for the fact that I have something doing. I am not complaining. Rather, I am thanking God that I have a job.”
Mrs. Mathew, proprietress of the Senate International School, said that everything is ready for resumption.
“We are fully ready to start up with third term. Teachers resumed last week and we had series of workshops and preparation of class such as class decoration, so that our pupils will be happy to see their classes wearing new makeup. We are ready on our part and we enjoin our dear parents to be up and doing in the payment of their children fees regardless of the fact that we are having financial challenges in our country.”