…seeks Buhari’s prompt assent  The Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has said the Nigeria Football Federation Law is capable of stimulating accelerated growth of the game in the country when it fully becomes operational. Saraki announced on his official twitter page that the NFF bill had been passed by the Nigerian Senate and it is now awaiting assent of President Muhammadu Buhari.  He said the Senate which he presides over had worked hard to get the NFF bill, which had spent 15 years in the National Assembly, passed before the termination of the life of the 8th Assembly.  He said nations like the UK, Spain, Germany and Italy, became football ‘powerhouses’ because their governments put in place legislation and support mechanisms to develop the sport into a sustainable industry that not only creates jobs, but also boosts internally generated revenue.  “Football lovers across the nation will be pleased to know that the Nigerian Football Federation (@TheNFF) Bill, which has been in @NASSNigeria for the past 15 years, was finally passed by the @NGRSenate on Wednesday, May 22nd, 2019,” he wrote on his official twitter account.  “Over the last 4-years, @NASSNigeria has worked assiduously to pass previously elusive Bills that have hindered the development of many sectors like the #PIGB, #CAMA, the 1% clause for Healthcare out of the CRF, and now, @ theNFF Bill. “@TheNFF Bill, is crucial because it provides a framework to fast-track the adoption of football as an integral part of our nation’s economy, by bringing our nation’s football administration up to speed with international best practices. @ FIFAcom @CAF_Online.  “The new @TheNFF Bill makes Nigeria one of the first nations in Africa to key into the FIFA statutes, and provides the necessary leadership and example for other African countries to remove the barriers that have hindered the administration of sports on the continent. He is hoping that President Buhari will give the bill an accelerated assent so that he can become operational as soon as possible.