The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is set to announce a third national micro-finance policy framework after two previous ones in the last 14 years generally failed to ensure that the sub-sector lives up to expectations. Tony Chukwunyem writes  Given that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had announced late last year that it was working on plans, in collaboration with the Bankers’ Committee and the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), to launch a national microfinance bank in the first quarter of this year, not too many regular attendees at the apex bank’s annual seminars for finance correspondents and business editors, would have been surprised that this was the focus of the 27th of such workshops held in Gombe, the capital of Gombe State, last week. The seminar, which had as its theme; “Repositioning Micro-Finance Banks for Real Sector Growth,” saw top officials of the CBN as well as key stakeholders tackling various issues that are generally believed to have hindered the country’s MFBs from effectively performing their role of providing credit and financial services to the poor, especially the rural poor.  Struggling SMEs key to slow GDP growth In fact, as the Chairman of the first technical session of the event and Director, Financial System Strategy, CBN, Mohammed Suleyman, pointed out, the theme of the seminar could not have come at a better time, as the CBN coupled with the Bankers’ Committee, are collaborating on how to diversify the nation’s economy and end its dependence on crude oil exports. Noting that Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are recognized the world over as the growth engines of economies, Suleyman emphasised that paying attention to the health of MFBs was important since their main function is to support businesses. “Nigeria is grappling with slow Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth because the SMEs are not doing well,” he argued, adding that most of the country’s MFBs do not have the capacity to adequately boost real sector and SMEs’ credit growth. He explained that the limitations of the MFBs led the CBN and the Bankers’ Committee to establish the Nigeria Incentive-Based Risk Sharing for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) National Microfinance Bank.  3rd version of National MFBs’ Policy framework underway Similarly, in her paper, entitled, “Appraisal of the New National Micro-Finance Policy Framework,” which she presented at the event, the Director, Other Financial Institutions Supervision Department (OFID) at the apex bank, Mrs. Tokunbo Martins, revealed that of the estimated 37 million Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, of which 36 million are micro enterprises, only about 1 million have access to credit, even as she also disclosed that MFBs only have about 8 million credit customers.  The CBN Director stated that it was in order to ensure that MFBs stepped up lending to MSMEs that the regulator is currently working on a third version of the National Micro-Finance Policy. According to her, the first version of the policy was introduced in 2005 in the aftermath of the failure of Community Banks to lend adequately to MSMEs. The CBN, she said, subsequently introduced the second version of the policy in 2011 as part of efforts to ensure that MFB operators took their services to MSMEs located in rural areas. She pointed out that the recent review of the minimum capital requirements for the sub-sector was aimed at ensuring that MFB operators had the capacity to fulfil their role of increasing MSMEs’ access to credit and financial services. She said: “MFBs are supposed to ensure that the poor have access to credit, but what you find is that microfinance banks today charge interest rates as high as 35 per cent per annum.” Mrs. Martins, however, said that she was optimistic that when the NIRSAL National Microfinance Bank commence operations nationwide, it would help to reduce the high interest rates charged by MFBs and Deposit Money Banks (DMBs). The CBN top official also stated that although the MFB sub-sector was currently performing below average, she was optimistic about its prospects given that MFBs’ total assets as well as deposits have steadily increased over the years despite the challenges facing the sub-sector. Indeed, she disclosed that contrary to the widespread view that almost all MFBs are struggling, the top 10 operators in the sub-sector are actually performing quite well and have robust balance sheets. The CBN Director said she was confident that as the micro economy improves, interest rates charged by MFB operators would gradually head south. The CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, sounded the same optimistic tone about the prospects of MFBs in his keynote address at the seminar. According to him, data from licensed credit bureau in the country indicates that the operations of MFBs have helped to improve financial inclusion amongst smallholder peasant farmers, artisans and other small business operators. The apex bank boss, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Corporate Services Directorate at the CBN, Mr. Edward Adamu, disclosed that MFBs had given out an aggregate loan of N482.896 billion as at December 2018. He said that of the N482.896 billion, loan sizes below N1.4 million accounted for 72per cent. He noted that small businesses have been more successful in securing credit from the microfinance institutions than from conventional Deposit Money Banks (DMBs). He, however, acknowledged the challenges facing the nation’s MFB sub-sector, which, according to him, include, inadequate spread in the location of the MFBs in relation to their target beneficiaries, demand for immoveable collaterals for loans, high interest rate, and absence of a credit reporting system. Stressing that the banking watchdog was committed to and working assiduously to addressing these limitations, he stated that the link between microfinance and the real sector was quite strong, noting that MFBs were conceived to serve as critical financial lubricants for the real sector, and the pillar of sustained economic growth. “At the moment economic policy in Nigeria faces a major challenge of reviving growth, which is the sure path to ending pervasive poverty. Microfinance has worked in this regard in many climes and promises to work in Nigeria, it we get it right. Accordingly, the bank, in collaboration with other agencies of Government, is implementing various intervention schemes in addition to promoting microfinance,” he said. He recalled that the CBN had, in 2005, formulated the Microfinance Policy, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework, which was aimed at bringing microfinance institutions and activities into greater focus in order to deepen financial inclusion and alleviate the financing needs of MSMES.  National MFB to lend at 5% But in his paper entitled, “The NIRSAL Micro-Finance Bank and real sector financing” which he presented at the seminar, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, NIRSAL, Mr. Aliyu Abdulhameed, argued that MFBs, as presently configured, are not really taking their services to the poor. The NIRSAL boss, who was represented by National Coordinating Consultant, NIRSAL MFB, Dr. Steve Ogidan, pointed out: “with the growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP), more people are going into MSMEs. There is thus the need for MFBs to ensure that MSMEs have adequate access to finance.” Citing NIRSAL’s success in registering 2 million farmers, he expressed optimism that NIRSAL MFB’s strategy for increasing access to finance for the poor would produce the desired results. According to him, the national MFB, which is owned 50 per cent by the Bankers’ Committee, 40 per cent by NIRSAL and 10 per cent by NIPOST, would give loans to MSMEs at a rate of 5 per cent. Besides, he stated that the NIRSAL MFB, which started with seven branches, plans to expand to 50 branches by the end of this month and 109 in the next six weeks, adding that the new bank had already deployed, “the best Financial Technology (Fintech).” He explained: “120 branches of the NIRSAL MFB will be brick and mortar, the rest will be agency banks. We will deploy agents in 664 locations and also incorporate non-interest banking.” He contended that he was confident that the new national MFB would be critical to boosting access to finance for the nation’s entrepreneurs in the coming months especially given that a lot of the conventional MFBs would not be able to meet the new minimum requirements recently introduced by the CBN. Given that small businesses’ lack of collateral is often cited as a major reason why they are unable to access credit from financial institutions, the CBN also invited the Registrar, National Collateral Registry (NCR), Mohammed Mainasara, to present a paper at  the workshop. In his paper, entitled: “How credit Bureaux and National Collateral Registry (NCR) will facilitate credit to the real sector,” Mr. Mainasara shed light on the operations of the Registry. Citing research findings, which show that 42 per cent of MSMEs are unable to access credit due to lack of collateral, the NCR boss explained that with the advent of Registry makes it possible for small businesses to use their possessions, including household items, as collaterals when they want to apply for loans.  Conclusion However, as a participant at the event who did not want to be identified argued: “Although CBN has not yet released the third version of the National Micro-Finance Policy framework, the major reason why MFBs are unable to effectively lend to MSMEs is the high cost of funds. The establishment of the national MFB is a good development, but it will not really solve the problem. How many small businesses will the bank be able to lend to at five per cent interest rate? The solution is for CBN to ensure that the cost of funds is drastically reduced so that financial institutions can lend at affordable rates to MSMEs.” Microfinance Banks (MFBs) in Nigeria granted a total of N900million loans last year, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has said. The Director, Other Financial Institutions Supervision Department (OFID) at the apex bank, Mrs. Agnes Martins, disclosed this yesterday at the ongoing CBN seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors… In “Business” Unit MfB = N200m, State MFB = N1bn, National MFB =N5bn   After months of speculations that it was about to make the move, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday announced an increase in the minimum capital requirement for Micro Finance Banks (MFBs) in the country. In a circular… In “News” Microfinance Banks (MFB) in Nigeria gave out an aggregate loan of N482.896 billion as at December 2018, Central Bank governor, Mr. Gidwin Emefiele, has said.CBN governor stated this while delivering a keynote address at the 27th Seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors in Gombe State. Represented by the Deputy… In “News”