Suspected gunmen on Sunday evening kidnapped a lecturer with Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Prof Olayinka Adegbehingbe in Ikire Osun State. This development came as suspected gunmen kidnapped a Ghanaian gateman and his daughter working in Chief Samuel Agboola Akintan along Akure/Owo road in Akure, the Ondo State capital. Adegbehingbe an orthopedic surgeon at the OAU Teaching Hospital was kidnapped at Ikire at about the time marauders raided the Ilesha-Ife-Ibadan highway. Several motorists and their passengers were injured during the raid along the ever busy road. Giving details of the attack along Ilesha-Ife-Ibadan highway, the Public Relation Officer of Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Mr. Adegbenro Adebanjo whose wife had a close shave with the marauders said the incident happened on Sunday’s evening when his wife was traveling along the route. Adebanjo in his Facebook post said he received a call from his son around 7:30 pm on Sunday that marauders suspected to be herdsmen attacked the vehicle his mother and brother were traveling in. He said “The caller, who is my first son, explained that according to information gleaned from his brother, who managed to escape with his phone the marauders targeted the travelers on the highway. From what I was able to piece together it was a clinical operation by professionals. “At about 6:45 pm on the Ilesha-Ife-Ibadan Expressway a trailer loaded with some men suddenly blocked the road around Ikoyi town and some men jumped out and started shooting sporadically. “Mayhem ensued as vehicles rammed into one another while occupants exited through windows and other openings in a desperate dash for safety in the bush. The marauders who spoke in Hausa unleashed mayhem on the hapless travelers demanding for money and other valuables. “They pursued those who fled deep into the bush beating and harassing them in the process while shooting continuously to show that they meant business. Some twenty minutes after help came through the Police who engaged the marauders in a shootout and succeeded in forcing them to beat a hasty retreat. “Mercifully most of the travelers including my wife and son who were bruised and battered both physically and psychologically live to tell their tales of the harrowing experiences. Family members said nothing has been heard from the kidnapped professor and his abductors have not made contacts with his family and OAU Meanwhile, the Ghanaian working at Ojomo Akintan Gardens, Mr. Richard Kwakye was kidnapped with his graduate daughter, Miss Temitope at the weekend. The father and the daughter, according to Prince Idowu Williams who also worked in the Gardens said the duo were seen at their duty post around 8 pm on Wednesday. He said they were declared missing on Friday when all efforts to locate them have proved abortive. He said all their personal belongings were still in the house and their mobile phones still ringing unanswered. Williams said the management of the Garden has reported the kidnapping at Ijapo Police Station and anti-kidnapping Alagbaka Akure.