Despite public outcry, including stiff opposition from the organised private sector (OPS) for a review of Nigeria’s auto policy, there are insinuations that the bill passed recently by the National Assembly could be assented to next month as part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term agenda. Taiwo Hassan reports  A review of the automotive policy, which was signed by the previous administration under former President, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan in 2013 is long overdue, according to the Organised private sector.
According to the private sector’s position, six years after, the policy has not only failed to achieve the desired outcome, but it has adversely impacted the cost of doing business, welfare of the people, government revenue and the capacity of the economy to create jobs.
In fact, they noted that if anything, it had caused massive trade diversion to neighboring countries amid bottlenecks in the policy.
Again, high compliance cost has put enormous pressure on firms moving them into uncompetitive positions in the face of weak institutional capacity to enforce the extant tariff regime, which has become a huge burden for operators.
Findings from the private sector showed that the cost of vehicles had risen beyond the reach of most citizens and corporate bodies.
It added that the impact has been negative with far reaching consequences.
In his own submission, the Director-General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Muda Yusuf, disclosed that the country’s automobile sector was hit by the double shock of currency depreciation (of over 80 per cent) over the last six years and an import duty hike to 70 per cent on new cars and 35 per cent on used zand commercial vehicles. Catalyst for industrialisation
Specifically, the auto policy was an import substitution industrialization strategy to reduce importation of vehicles and incentivize domestic vehicle assembly. However, import substitution strategy would only thrive in the context of high domestic value addition.
It is within such a framework that the economy could benefit from the inherent values of import substitution, which includes backward integration, economic inclusion, multiplier effects, conservation of foreign exchange, job creation and reduction of import bills.
Besides, the automotive policy, in its current form, is not in consonance with the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP), which is the main industrial policy document of the current administration.
Ideally, the NIRP espouses the strategy of resource-based industrialization. Six years on
Six years into the implementation of the auto policy, not much progress has been made, even though over 50 vehicle assembly plants licences have been issued. Also, total annual assembly of new cars in 2017 and 2018 were estimated at less than 10,000 units.
The truth is that, the high cost of vehicles has taken a severe toll on the economy, from a logistics cost and welfare point of view. Practically all aspects of the country’s economic and social lives had been negatively impacted by the situation. This is because over 90 per cent of the country’s freight and human movements are done by road, which implies heavy dependence on cars, commercial buses and trucks.
Indeed, manufacturers and other real sector investors suffer from high cost of delivery vehicles, sharp increases in haulage cost because of the high cost of trucks; school buses have become un-affordable by many institutions; many hospitals cannot afford ambulances; many corporate organisations have drastically cut down on their fleet etc.
In addition, vehicle ownership is now completely beyond most of the middle class. These unintended consequences and collateral harmful effects on the economy and welfare of citizens are incalculable. This underscores the strategic importance of road transportation to domestic economic integration and connectivity.
The economy has witnessed an increase in the price of vehicles by between 200 per cent to 400 per cent over the last five years.
Truly, not many investors and the citizens have the capacity to pay these outrageous prices. Even prosperous corporate organizations are now buying used vehicles for official use. The implication of the scenario for operational costs of organizations is worrisome. Consequently, the OPS stated that the auto policy in its present form is most inappropriate for an economy that is heavily dependent on road transportation.
Some implications of the policy include high transportation cost resulting from the prohibitive cost of vehicles largely because of the high import tariff and sharp currency depreciation, increase in smuggling resulting from the high import duty and levy as well as the huge duty differential with Nigeria’s neighboring countries, huge loss of customs revenue, as vehicle imports from official channels drop and smuggling increases with huge loss of revenue by the Nigeria Ports Authority.
Others are considerable loss of maritime sector business to neighboring countries as more vehicle imports are diverted to neighboring countries, severe adverse effect on automobile dealers in Nigeria, as high cost of vehicles creates affordability problems, low sales and massive erosion of profit margins, loss of jobs in the nations maritime and allied sector following the sharp drop in vehicle imports, creation of opportunities for corruption and extortion by agencies of government because of compliance issues. Others are the massive incentives for smuggling, high cost of transportation resulting from high cost of passenger cars and buses and high road safety risk because of the high vehicle replacement cost and affordability issues.
In fact, there are too many rickety vehicles on the roads because of the prohibitive replacement cost. Need for legislation
Speaking on the country’s auto sector, the Director- General, National Automotive Design and Development Council (NNDC), Jelani Aliyu, explained that the Federal Government needs to overhaul the current auto policy and turn it to a piece of legislation that will govern automobile industry in the country.
Such auto law, according to Aliyu, will assist in strengthening the policy as well as preventing it from being changed by subsequent governments to come.
He noted that the automotive plan contained a number of policy measures needed to revitalise the industry for job creation, local value addition, and technology acquisition.
Aliyu noted that the six components of the policy included standards, industrial infrastructure, local content development, skills development, investment promotion and market development.
He affirmed that there was need for a legislation to support the policy, saying that, he was convinced it would assist in strengthening the policy as well as preventing it from being changed by subsequent governments.
He said: “We need to have the auto policy become law. As you are aware, the auto policy is a set of fiscal incentives that are designed to boost production. The big question in Nigeria is, are we after short-term benefit? The only way we can ensure that this country continues to be a successful nation is to provide industrialisation and provide jobs.
“The only way we can provide jobs is to boost industries and support those local and international investors in coming into Nigeria and producing. That is why the automotive policy is so important for local production. We are making progress because these shows there are investors from around the world especially, from Japan which is the heartbeat of automotive.
“So we are working very closely with the National Assembly to see how that automotive policy becomes law, so that there was no policy summersault.” New vehicle designs underway
Speaking further, the director general of NADDC revealed that the Federal Government had commenced moves to present vehicles designed by Nigerian experts to the world as part of efforts geared towards the development of the nation’s automotive industry.
He noted that there would be a competition among vehicle designers where the best-designed vehicle would be adopted for the pilot scheme.
He said: “We are in quest for the first Nigerian car and it will be designed by Nigerians. Luckily, we have a vehicle designer as the head of NADDC.”
He lamented that inconsistency in government’s policies in the past was largely responsible for the slow pace of development of the nation’s auto industry.
Aliyu, however, noted that the introduction of the current auto policy in 2011 as initiated by a former Minister of Industry, Olusegun Aganga, was a turning point in the nation’s auto business.
The NADDC DG said the council had concluded necessary arrangements for the vehicle design competition.
He said the auto policy bill passed recently by the National Assembly was before President Muhammadu Buhari awaiting his assent. Last line
As momentum gathers for the review of the country’s present auto policy, it would seem unfair for President Buhari to sign the bill into law next month since it virtually contradicts the agenda of government’s industralisation bid.