KENNETH OFOMA reports on the recent meeting of South-East All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in Enugu, where the party’s national leadership was charged to review the zoning of leadership positions of the incoming 9th National Assembly to ensure equity  For the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), it is yet another time to elect presiding officers of the National Assembly, having won majority of the seats in the upper and lower legislatives chambers after the 2019 general elections. The inauguration of the 9th National Assembly and election of its leadership will be coming up in June and loyalty to the party and equity (in terms of power balancing in line with federal character) as well as performance of the geopolitical zones in the general elections are factors being considered. The 2023 permutations, when power is expected to leave the North to the South, are also in the mix.
The ruling APC has met and a decision has been taken to zone the principal offices in the National Assembly to the various zones of the country. The party has zone the president of the Senate to the North-East and Speaker of the House of Representatives to the South-West, while appearing hedgy in the other positions although the South-South is being considered for deputy president of the Senate. The North Central, on its part, is being considered for the position of deputy speaker.
But, the zoning formula by the leadership of the party appears to be generating a lot of dust as some lawmakers outside the regions, where the various positions were zoned have defied the party and are seriously contesting the positions. It is this development that prompted the meeting of APC South-East caucus meeting in Enugu last weekend. At the meeting were ministers, National Assembly members-elect and other party stalwarts.
The South-East APC leaders after a marathon meeting that lasted for more than four hours, indirectly rejected the zoning arrangement. They however, diplomatically called on the national leadership of the party to review the zoning of the leadership of the 9th National Assembly in order to make for equity and fairness. South-East APC produced three senators and four House of Representatives members in the 2019 general elections. The senators-elect are Dr. Oji Uzor Kalu, (Abia), Rochas Okocha and Ben Uwajumogu, both from Imo, but Okorocha and Uwajumogu yet to be issued with certificates of return over unresolved issues with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
Two of the House of Representatives from the zone are running for the position of the Speaker, House of Representatives. They are Nkiruka Onyejeocha (Abia) and Chike Okafor (Imo).
The South-East APC leaders deplored what they called “undue interference and unwholesome meddlesomeness” by forces from outside the zone aimed at factionalizing the party in the zone, and warned those involved to discontinue same.
The stakeholders endorsed the respective aspirations of those from the zone, seeking National Assembly principal positions and urged that in their individual pursuit of same, they should be guided by the need to preserve party cohesion, strengthen collective group interest and promote party discipline. They also urged the national leadership of the party to draw strength from the need to utilize the zoning of principal offices in the 9th National Assembly to further deepen and strength the electoral appeal of the party, especially in parts of the country, where it may be considered as weak. A communiqué read by the National Vice Chairman of APC, South East Zone, Emma Eneukwu, who also presided over the meeting, read in part: “We call on the national leadership of our great party to revisit the subsisting zoning of principal offices in the 9th National Assembly in a more equitable manner that will accord more deserving positions to South-East zone considering that the federation of Nigeria rests on the six geopolitical zones of South-East, South-South, South-West, North Central, North-East and North-West. “At all times, it should be borne in mind that since democracy is a dynamic process, our great party should remain a truly national political party with broad based support in all parts of the country, the South-East Zone inclusive.”
The caucus, which congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari for is reelection in the 2019 general elections, went further to set up two committees – Contact Committee, chaired by the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and Reconciliation Committee, chaired by former Minister of Labour and Productivity, Barr. Emeka Wogu.
The Contact Committee, which has other members as the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige; Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; DIG Azubuike Uda (rtd); Senator Chris Nwankwo, Mrs. Ugo Okoye and Hon. Austin Chukwukere, was charged with the responsibility of reaching out to the presidency and leaders of the party across the county to lobby for a zoning arrangement that will favour the South-East.
The Reconciliation Committee which has Mr. Sunny Onyeukwu as secretary, and 10 other members was charged with the responsibility of investigating the poor performance of the party in the zone during the last elections and reconcile all aggrieved members as well as look out for the party’s areas of strength and weaknesses ahead of the 2023 general elections. In his remark, Onu, who is the leader of South-East caucus of the party, called on party members to work together in order to overcome challenges facing the zone. The minister described the performance of the party in the zone during the polls as a “great improvement” from the 2015 scenario. He said the performance might be below expectations, but commendation should be given to members of the party in the zone given their peculiar situation.
Former governor of Abia State and Senator-elect for Abia North Senatorial District, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, expressed dismay that some APC leaders in the zone sabotaged the party during the elections by entering into agreement with sitting governors in the zone, who deceitfully promised to allocate 25 per cent of votes to President Buhari.
Kalu said the party could have performed better and possibly could have won two or three states in the zone without such agreement, which made the presidency and the party not to channel enough logistics to support its members in the South-East. The former governor insisted that he had it on good authority that some APC chieftains in the zone sabotaged genuine efforts of the party by aligning with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He, therefore, called for the setting up of a committee to investigate the sabotage and unholy alliance that weakened the party’s strength during the polls.
His words: “One of the leaders of the party outside this zone told me that some of our chieftains, including serving ministers, negotiated with PDP governors to allow our party 25 per cent of votes cast at the polls. We have to fish out the people that said our party cannot afford 25 per cent votes for President Buhari and punish them.
“They sabotaged us. We cannot be working for the party and look like fools. Some of us worked, but a few went to Abuja to say we cannot deliver. There was no way the APC would not have won states like Abia and others, but some of our leaders sabotaged us. We have to reveal and suspend them.” Another chieftain of the party, Senator Chris Adighije, said though forces against the APC during the polls in the zone were enormous, the party made great achievements through hard work.
“The forces were against us in Abia State, but we won seats in the national and state Assembly. If some people negotiated for 25 per cent on behalf of the party, we have to fight back,” he said.
The two contestants for the House of Representatives speakership, Onyeojeocha and Okafor expressed disappointment at the zoning formula of the party and vowed to fight on as the position ought to have been zoned to the South-East.
Onyejeocha said: “My constituents told me that they are not comfortable with the zoning arrangement. It is not fair to the South-East; it is not fair to me.”
Okafor, on his part, said: “APC has not given the South-East a fair deal since 2015. In 2015, the South-East did not produce any senator, but produced two House of Representatives members and the party garnered 198,000 votes from the zone, while PDP garnered 2.4 million votes. “In 2019, APC won four federal House and three senatorial seats and garnered 403,000 votes in the South-East, while PDP got 1.4 million votes. From 2015 to 2019, the APC-led Federal Government and the party did not extend enough gestures to the zone, which could have strengthened us. But yet, we recorded an improvement in 2019 because of fighting, resilience and doggedness of APC members in South-East.”
Earlier, in his opening remarks, Eneukwu described the just concluded general elections as a difficult one for the party in the zone. He said opponents of the party tried to incapacitate it “but we came out victorious. We are proud of our members that won various elective positions and it would have been a shame if they could not win.”
Participants at the meeting supported the investigation of the alleged sabotage of the party by some of its chieftains.