Former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, alongside five northern governors have honoured Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu, as the 20th National President of the Nigeria Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), with a charge to make Nigeria a viable oil zero-nation.  Speaking in a grand investiture to honour her in Kaduna State, the northern leaders asked her to focus on building enviable achievements by reducing poverty through job creation. Abubakar, who led other dignitaries to honour Aliyu as the chairman of the investiture ceremony, congratulated Aliyu, while thanking NACCIMA for honouring her, saying her choice was right at this material time as Nigeria needs women with ideas to excel. In his remarks, Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, said NACCIMA made a good choice in Aliyu, who will take the association to greater heights under her leadership.  Also, Governor Yahaya   Bello of Kogi State wished Aliyu a successful tenure, saying he is at home in Kaduna where he grew up. Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Badaru Abubakar, assured Aliyu of his support, stating that having performed well as the chamber’s President in Kaduna, she would do a great job by building on the success of the immediate past president by making NACCIMA greater.  Plateau State Governor, Dr. Simon Lalung, advised Aliyu to focus on making Nigeria a truly but viable zero oil nation through agriculture. On his part, Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el Rufai, congratulated her and said the state government acknowledged the role of private sector as that of valuable partner in development.  El Rufai, who was represented by Prof. Kabiru Matu, welcomed NACCIMA delegates across the country to Kaduna. Iyalode Alaba Lawson who handed over to Aliyu after a successful two year tenure as its 19th and first female president prayed for wisdom, knowledge and understanding for Aliyu to steer the ship of NACCIMA.  Giving the vote of thanks, Ide John C. Udeagbala, who is the first vice president, thanked all the serving and past members, dignitaries and guests for making the investiture a success. Aliyu, a graduate of education from Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, having served the chamber for almost three decades, said the completion of Abuja towers will be of utmost priority during her two-year tenure