An Ikeja Chief Magistrate’s Court on Monday ordered that an 18-year-old man, Joseph Esan, be remanded in prison for allegedly defiling a five-year-old girl. Chief Magistrate Olufunke Sule-Amzat, who did not take the plea of the defendant, ordered that the defendant be remanded in Kirikiri Prison. Sule-Amzat ordered the police to send the case file to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) for advice. The magistrate adjourned the case until June 13 for further hearing. The defendant, who lives at Alagbado area of Lagos, was charged with defilement. Earlier, the Prosecutor, ASP Benson Emuerhi, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on April 7 at 4 p.m., at No. 6, Ashilo St., Alagbado, Lagos. Emuerhi alleged that the defendant sexually assaulted the minor. The prosecutor said that the case was reported to the police at the Gender Section, Ikeja Police Division by the victim’s mother. According to him, the offence contravened the provisions of Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2015. (NAN) An Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos on Wednesday, ordered that a 22-year-old mechanic, Victor Anyaegbu, who allegedly sexually assaulted a two-year-old girl, be remanded in prison, pending legal advice from the Director of Public Prosecutions. The defendant, a resident of Alafia Street in Orisumbare, Ejigbo area of Lagos, is… In “Metro and Crime” An Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday remanded a 38-year-old electrician, Chukwueke Ashiedu, who allegedly defiled his 17-year-old daughter, pending advice of the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). Chief Magistrate Olufunke Sule-Amzat, ordered that the defendant should be kept in Kirikiri Prisons, Lagos state. She adjourned the case… In “Metro and Crime” The Benin Zonal Command, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), yesterday said it had arrested seven suspected human traffickers in the zone between January and March. Similarly, an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court yesterday said that a 32-yearold security guard, Dennis Nba, who allegedly defiled a 12-year-old… In “News”