 One of the challenges Abakaliki faces is that many who have never visited the Ebonyi State capital, defines it by its rice. Yes, rice defined Abakaliki’s fame.
Decades before it became a state capital, only 23 years ago, Abakaliki had been known for its brand of rice, a product of the day’s technology. Tales of that rice were enough to fill bags.
Abakaliki rice has changed from its stony fame to one of the best brands of rice in Nigeria. So has Abakaliki changed to one of the country’s best state capitals.
The road leading into Abakaliki is the best inter-state road in the South-East. As it enters the city, it grows into an expressway, in its final stages of completion.
It is only the beginning of the magic. Overhead bridges, new roads are sprouting all over the city to meet the increasing needs that new businesses and social activities are creating.
Under the superintendence of Governor David Umahi, an engineer who is true to his profession, the changes in Ebonyi State are profound. The projects are targeted at securing the future of the peoples of the state.
Governor Umahi is quietly creating an economy away from its paltry monthly allocations from oil. On the average Ebonyi gets N3.5 billion a month. His engineering of the state’s finances has resulted in projects that belie its financial straits.
The economic focus of the state is a dynamic insight that would pay off sooner than the most optimistic projections.
Ebonyi, its rice fields apart, has huge deposits of salt and limestones. The 62-year-old Nkalagu Cement plant, the first cement factory in Nigeria, is being rebuilt. Two more plants are planned for Effium and Okpoto.
They will create jobs. They will generate more economic and commercial activities. Government will earn taxes from them, aside dividends from its shares in the business. There is more.
Glass sand, limestone, salt, shale, ball clay, gypsum, refractory clay, galena, granite, marble, lateritic sand, lead, zinc are available in the state in commercial quantities, according to surveys the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) conducted years back.
Ebonyi State intends to fast track the mining of the minerals spread across its 13 local government areas. More jobs and revenues are expected from them.
Governor Umahi has plans too to explore the agricultural resources of the state, aside from its rice fields. Agriculture has long been identified as the state’s goldmine.
Maize, beans, yam, sweet potato, palm produce, banana, mango, cassava, melon, plantain, orange, cocoyam, fish, citrus, vegetables, pumpkin, cocoa, groundnuts, ogbono, okro, pepper, pear, tomatoes are agricultural produce the same surveys confirm are in commercial quantities in the state. They are found in all parts of the state.
A combination of commercial agriculture and mining would lead the state to more revenues. Job creation, a big concern for the Umahi administration, would be tackled through these activities.
A giant waste conversion plant in Umuoghara would produce materials for plastics and other materials from dirts collected from the streets. The machines are in place and undergoing tests. Hundreds of youths would be engaged as they supply wastes to the plant.
While some of these projects may seem to be for the future, the immediate centres on increased commercial activities throughout the state. Abakaliki is first consideration on the list. The projects are nearing completion.
The Ebonyi Shopping Complex is meant to attract international traders from Cameroon, just like the international market. Both are at various stages of finishing.
Bamenda in Cameroon is only 229km from Abakaliki. Another Cameroonian city Mamfe is 235.3km from Abakaliki. Both towns in the South Eastern parts of Cameroon meet their needs from markets in South-East Nigeria. Ebonyi is burrowing into that economy with its proximity as a core advantage.
Markets in Ebonyi would bring goods closer to users in Cameroon in volumes and values that defeat the purposes of travelling further for them.
The increased traffic these commercial activities would bring into Abakaliki has been anticipated with the construction of new flyovers that specifically serve the markets.
Shoppers would drive into the Ebonyi Shopping Complex and international market and leave through routes that would have minimal impact on traffic within the town.
The development of Abakaliki has also seen new facilities like the stadium, private entertainment facilities, the state university and the Federal Government’s Alex Ekwueme University in Alike, Ikwo.
Other parts of the state are benefitting from projects that would change the impressions people have about Ebonyi State. Governor Umahi is seeing to it.
Soon, many would know there are more to Abakaliki and Ebonyi State than rice, salt and limestones. •Nmerengwa writes from Abakaliki in Ebonyi.