The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, on Saturday called on Muslims to commence search for the new moon of Ramadan 1440A.H. Sultan Abubakar gave the directive in a statement by the Chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Affairs, Sultanate Council, Sokoto, Prof. Sambo Junaidu. Junaidu said: “This is to inform the Muslim Ummah that Sunday, May 5, which is equivalent to 29 day of Sha’aban 1440A.H., shall be the day to look for the new moon of Ramadan 1440A.H. “Muslims are, therefore, requested to start looking for the new moon of Ramadan 1440AH on Sunday; and report its sighting to the nearest District or Village Head, for onward communication to the Sultan.”
The monarch prayed to Allah to help religious leaders and all Muslims in the discharge of their religious duties. He further said the general public could report the sighting of the new moon directly to the Sultan. Meanwhile, the Commander-General of Kano Hisbah, Nabahani Usman, said that from Monday, his men will begin to arrest adults who are seen eating in public. Usman said arrested persons would only be released if they can provide an exemption letter from a medical doctor or the person can show proof of chronic ulcer.
According to the Hisbah boss, when such a person has provided evidence, he or she would be released with a warning not to eat in public anymore. During the week, several sex workers and criminals were arrested ahead of the holy month.
Usman explained that Ramadan was a special month for Muslims adding that anybody that practiced Islam must fast. He said: “We do this kind of operation yearly and we will continue it this year. The aim is to get every Muslim to respect the month of Ramadan. Even if a doctor says you should not fast, that does not mean you should eat in public while others are fasting. “So any Muslim that we apprehend eating outside, our men will arrest and bring the person to our office unless he can show proof that a doctor asked him not to fast.” There have been several reports in the past about arrest of persons eating during the month of Ramadan.
Kano State has been practising Sharia law since 2001 when former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso signed the bill creating Hisbah.  The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has urged Muslims to start sighting of the new moon of Rajab 1440AH. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Rajab is the Seventh month in the Islamic calendar that comes two month before the compulsory fasting month of Ramadan. Abubakar… In “News” Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar yesterday called on Muslims to start looking for the new moon of Sha’aban 1440A.H. Abubakar made the call in a statement signed by Prof. Sambo Junaidu, the chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Af fairs, Sultanate Council, Sokoto. Junaidu stated that; “This is to inform the Muslim Ummah… In “News” The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has urged Muslims to watch out for the new moon of Dhulhajj1438AH from Tuesday August 22. The Sultan said this in a statement issued by Prof. Sambo Junaidu, the Chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Affairs, Sultanate Council, Sokoto on Saturday. “This is… In “News”