…gives Sports Ministry two weeks to refund money …as Minister keeps mum   The fate of Nigerian athletes that have qualified for the next African Games and the IAAF World Championships might be hanging in the balance after the International Association of Athletic Federation threatened to ban the country from participating in any track and field event over the missing $150,000 erroneously sent to the Athletic Federation of Nigeria in 2017. This sum was sent to the AFN instead of the scheduled payment of $15,000 (£10,600/£12,100) due to be given to national federations. The mistake initially went unnoticed before an IAAF accountant realised it and contacted the Nigerian body for a refund. Despite promises by the minister of sports, Solomon Dalung, for the balance to be refunded, nothing has been done in respect of this leading to the IAAF writing another letter to the country. In a letter sent to the country on May 12, titled Re: Reimbursement of wrongful credit, and signed by Senior Manager, Governance, Member and International Relations Department, Jee Isram, the IAAF is requesting for a prompt action on the reimbursement of the funds. “Dear president, you were informed on March 14, 2018 by our CEO of a payment made by the IAAF to the bank account of your federation on May 17, 2017. A sum of $150,000 was transferred by the IAAF of which $135,000 were wrongly credited,” the letter read. “We promptly notified you of this overpayment and followed up several written correspondences as well as a meeting with you in November 2017, requesting that you reverse the bank transfer of the overpaid amount to no avail. “On 28 June, 2018, you informed us that the ministry of sports was ready to refund 50 percent of that amount and despite several telephone conversations, the amount was still not paid. “While we were in Asaba in August 2018 during the African Senior Championships, we met with the minister of sports and his Permanent Secretary. We discussed about the return of the funds to the IAAF and until today we have not heard anything.
“We understand that the minister will be stepping down soon and it is imperative that you arrange for the return of the full amount within two weeks, at the latest. Failure to receive the fund back within that period, we will have no alternative than to apply appropriate sanctions against your federation.”
It would be recalled that the House of Representatives on March 14, 2018, decided to investigate the alleged disappearance of the $150,000. The decision was taken following the adoption of a motion under matters of urgent national importance brought by Hon. Douye Diri (PDP, Bayelsa). The minister of sports also set up a committee to look into how the money got missing. The money was paid during the period when there was no board in place after the previous administration led by Solomon Ogba was dissolved and the new exco led by Ibrahim Gusau was yet to be inaugurated into office.
At the initial period when the missing money was reported, all efforts to get across to the people in charge proved abortive with the then secretary, of the AFN, Amechi Akawo, saying with the case under investigations, he had nothing to say.
Meanwhile, the minister of sports, Dalung, failed to respond to the call put through by our correspondent, while also declining to respond to the text message sent to his mobile telephone.