MTN’s planned listing will set in motion the necessary machinery required to turn around the market, writes Chris Ugwu  Since the beginning of the economic meltdown in the mid 2008, the Nigerian capital market has continued to struggle to regain its confidence due to the loss suffered by the investors and the inability of the market regulators to proffer a lasting solution to restore the market to its past glory as a centre for the nation’s capital formation. Investigations have showed that amongst the causes of the downward trend and eventual collapse of the market was the fact that the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) was and still is relatively small and unrepresentative of the size of the nation’s economy, underdeveloped, illiquid and operated in isolation from other markets. These are unsustainable and must change to engender development of the Nigerian economy. The question on the lips of investors has remained on how to turn around this market? Several players in the market are calling for the need for multinationals especially telecoms companies that are ripping off Nigerians of their incomes day in day out to be quoted on the Exchange considering this is the trend in some emerging markets. MTN for instance, got a licence in 2001 for the sum of $285 million mostly financed by Nigerian banks. Between January and June of the same year, MTN repatriated some $5 billion as profits from their Nigerian operations. It is not in doubt that the MTN Nigeria, which is listed on the Johannesburg stock exchange under the Industrial- non clinical services- Telecommunications sector is the largest contributor to the bourse with MTN group as the largest player in the sector. To be modest, the Nigerian group currently accounts for larger percent of the headline revenue of the MTN group. The story is not much different with the other telecoms operators in the country such as Airtel, Glo and 9 mobile. However, following the weak condition of the local bourse, market operators believed the time is ripe for all multinational companies especially the telecom sector doing business in the country, noting that this is the only way to set in motion the necessary machinery required to turn around the market. Recently, MTN Nigeria finally responded to operators’ call to the expectations by officially applying for listing by introduction on the local bourse. The company had earlier in the year announced plans to list before July after failing to do so last year as promised. However, it said the listing is also subjected to resolution of the ongoing court case over alleged $2 billion tax defaults. Head, Corporate Communications, Mrs. Efe Ebelo, who made the disclosure in an email message to our correspondent, said: “SEC can confirm that we are in receipt of an application from MTN requesting for registration of their existing securities.  “They have applied for listing by introduction, which will enable the company to be listed and allow shareholders sell their shares on the floor of the exchange. Their application is presently receiving attention”.   Preparatory to its listing Preparatory to its listing, MTN Nigeria recently completed its conversion from a private company to a public liability company (Plc). The conversion to a Plc is a legal requirement and key milestone in the preparatory process for MTN’s listing by introduction on the Nigerian bourse. Speaking on the announcement, MTN CEO, Ferdi Moolman, commented: “Our conversion to a Plc is a major step towards listing by introduction on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in the first half of 2019. It is a reaffirmation of our long-term commitment to expanding investment opportunities for Nigerians, in addition to providing everyday services to them. We look forward to continuing our engagement with the SEC and NSE to take forward the listing process.” MTN last week announced that it had successfully completed the registration of 20,354,513,050 ordinary shares of N0.02 each with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The company said in a statement made available to newsmen that the completion of the registration process set in motion the next steps in its intended listing by introduction on the Exchange. The Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria Ferdi Moolman, said, “I am excited that we have achieved another milestone in our listing process and we want to thank SEC and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) for supporting us through the process.
“We have now begun to engage with NSE to complete the listing process.”  The President/Chief Executive Officer, MTN Group, Mr. Rob Shuter, said the move would enable the company to get listed easily, adding that findings showed that the free float in the Nigerian market would be about 35 per cent. Approval to list granted SEC also last week granted MTN approval to list its shares by introduction on the official list of the NSE. Head, Corporate Communications, Mrs. Efe Ebelo, who made the disclosure in an email message to our correspondent, said: “The Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC can confirm that the application by MTN Nigeria to register their existing securities has been approved. “According to Acting Director General of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, “MTN sought to come to the market by way of an introduction and they wrote to the SEC last week requesting for approval to register its existing shares. That approval has now been granted”. “Recall that the SEC received the application from the company last week to register their existing securities. “This is a further indication of the determination by the SEC to work with companies that are interested in the capital market. We believe that this will also encourage other service providers to come to the market,” she said.   Prospects of listing Capital market operators have lauded MTN Nigeria’s application to SEC for listing by introduction, saying that it will deepen market liquidity. Professor of finance & capital market and Chair, Banking and Finance Department, Nasarawa State University, Professor Uche Joe Uwaleke, speaking to our correspondent on the prospect of MTN’s planned listing, said the expected listing on NSE would boost market liquidity, diversify offerings, as the company would become the second most capitalized company in the market, after Dangote Cement Plc. “MTN Listing, which promises to increase market cap by about N2 trillion representing circa 13.3 per cent of market cap, making MTN the second most capitalized stock is one of the possible reasons for expected bullish sentiment during the third quarter of the year,” he said. Uwaleke said that listing of MTN would help in product diversification at the exchange. “This will help to diversify concentration, we will now have telecommunications, industrial sector and not when it’s only Dangote. “It’s a welcome development and the capital market community is in jubilation mood and we are anxiously waiting for that to materialise, because it will help to deepen the market and give Nigerians the opportunity to partake in the fortunes of MTN,” Uwaleke stated. He noted that MTN listing would widen the choices of both local and foreign investors in terms of investment decision. “It is also a door opener for other multinationals to come and be part of success story of Nigerian capital market by seeking listing, especially those in telecommunications sector such as Globacom and Etisalat, among others,” he said.  “We expect the big four to come and list on the exchange. The same with oil companies, Shell is not yet listed but we also know that in South Africa, the downstream sector is listed on Johannesburg Stock Exchange. “Companies in the downstream sector should be sensitised to list on NSE. It’s not about making it compulsory for them to list, it’s about making them understand why they have to list.  “Apart from the fact that it helps you to raise capital, its an opportunity to contribute to the development of the very place where you are making your money from, the bulk of MTN’s money is coming from Nigeria. “It will open doors for others to come and list and if they do that, the Nigerian Capital Market will be on its way to becoming African’s largest stock market, if they all come and list, I’m sure we will beat South Africa,” Uwaleke said. The Managing Director, Highcap Securities Limited, Mr. David Adonri reacting to the development, said the listing will revive the equity market.  Adonri, who lamented that the country missed the opportunity of compelling telecoms companies to list on NSE when NCC licensed them, said in attracting major private companies that occupy the commanding heights of the economy to list, government must, as a matter of necessity, grant them fiscal incentives.  Adonri, who also noted that companies list their securities in stock markets to have access to long term capital, explained that capital formation is the essence of an efficient stock market.  “New issues that facilitate capital formation takes place in the primary market,” he said. “Although new bond issues have in recent past inundated the primary market, new equity issues have virtually disappeared. New listings are essentially in pursuit of equity capital as against debt finance ,which companies can obtain easily from the money market. As a result, the incentive to list afresh is almost non-existent now. Revival of the equities primary market is a necessity if new listings are to be attracted by the NSE,” he said.    Last line MTN’s intended listing on NSE will create a new telecoms asset class for investors and provide a wider group of Nigerians with a chance to participate in the investment opportunity.