Joint Accounts: Relief as FG frees councils from states’ grip  The joint accounts run by states and local governments have been blamed for the inability of the councils to meet their primary objectives of promoting participatory democracy and rapid socio-economic development at the grassroots. But it is freedom at last for the third tier of government as the Federal Government is set to implement the new order that makes it compulsory for their allocations to go straight to them. FELIX NWANERI reports  The local government is the closest administration to the people, but the inability of the country’s 774 councils to meet the two primary objectives spelled out in the landmark Local Governments Reform of 1976, which are to promote participatory democracy and rapid socio-economic development at the local level has made the citizens to lose trust in the third tier of government. This dereliction of duty explains the crave by many Nigerians for change in the local government system as presently constituted in order make the councils face present day realities as well as live up to the expectations of a majority of the populace who live at the grassroots and have continued to yearn for development at that level. The change, stakeholders, however, agreed will require a constitutional amendment. While most analysts blame the nation’s faulty federal structure for the failure of the councils, others maintained that the joint account run by the states and local governments is to be blamed for the latter’s inability to meet their primary objectives. Section 7 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), guarantees a system of local government by democratically elected officials. However, the second component of the section makes the establishment, structure, composition, finance and functions of the local governments dependent on state laws. Section 7 (1) of the 1999 Constitution states that “the system of local government by democratically elected local government councils is under this Constitution guaranteed; and accordingly, the government of every state shall, subject to Section 8 of this Constitution, ensure their existence under a law which provides for the establishment, structure, composition, finance and functions of such councils.” This guarantee, notwithstanding, the constitution inadvertently makes it possible for state governments to “cripple” the local governments financially by routing funds standing to their credit in the Federation Account through the States/Local Governments’ Joint Accounts rather than allowing them direct access to the monies. Whereas the Federal Government argued then that the operation of the joint account was meant to bring even development to all parts of the country as well as to forestall a situation, where no single government official at the state or local level, corruptly enriches himself from the commonwealth, the arrangement, has over time, adversely affected the financial viability of the councils as some state governments have continued to make inexplicable deductions from the joint accounts. Section 162 (8) of the Constitution which explains how the amount standing in the joint accounts should be distributed to the local governments in each state, provides that “the amount standing to the credit of local government councils of a state shall be distributed among the local government councils of that state on such terms and in such manner as may be prescribed by the House of Assembly of the state.”  Joint accounts as LGs albatross Rather than ensure fiscal responsibility, the law provided a window for state governments, which are constitutionally required to fund local government councils, to instead hold them (the local governments’) hostage and make them their appendages. In practice, the operation of the joint account has denied the local governments’ their financial autonomy. It should be noted that the state governments were not meant to be beneficiaries of the account, but trustees. They are required to maintain the accounts for the benefit of the local governments by ensuring that the amount allocated for this third tier of government is equitably and fairly shared among the councils, adhering strictly to constitutionally stipulated criteria. Most state governments have continued to implement the joint account contrary to its intention. Instances abound, where some governors’ hand out only wage bills to council chairmen in their respective domains, a development, which prompted calls by some analysts and stakeholders for the Federal Government to either review the local government system or even scrap it. The umbrella body of council workers, Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), which has persistently called for the joint account to be expunged from the constitution, is of the view that it “will bring sanity to the local government system.” According to NULGE, the joint account had been the main problem of local government system because state governments have continued to abuse it. “The group alleged illegal and sundry deductions from local government fund through the joint account by the state governments and imposition of undemocratic structures (caretaker committees) by the state governments to run the affairs of local governments contrary to section 7 of the constitution.  Previous attempts to free councils from states Against the backdrop of outcry over misappropriation of council funds by the states, the 7th National Assembly, through the House of Representatives, initiated a bill for an act to amend not only the provisions of Section 7 of the constitution, but also Section 162 in order to provide for independence and financial autonomy of the local governments. Section 162 of the Constitution states inter-alia: “The Federation shall maintain a special account to  be called “the Federation Account” into which shall be paid all revenues collected by the Government of the Federation, except the proceeds from the personal income tax of the personnel of the armed forces of the Federation, the Nigeria Police Force, the Ministry or department of government charged with responsibility for Foreign Affairs and the residents of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.” The bill, sponsored then by the member representing Anaocha/Njikoka/Dunukofia federal constituency, Hon. Uche Ekwunife, sought to amend the two sections to give the local governments’ independence and financial autonomy. Ekwunife had in her presentation of the bill, lamented the level of underdevelopment at the local governments across the country owing to neglect by the various state governments. She queried the need for the councils if the only exist to pay salaries, adding that until the relevant sections of the constitution are amended, the councils will continue to be under the apron strings of the state governors. The bill passed second reading and was consequently committed to the chamber’s ad-hoc Committee on Constitution Review for further legislative action, but nothing meaningful came out of it. A proposal by the immediate past Goodluck Jonathan-led Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration for the scrapping of the joint accounts, also suffered similar fate. The Federal Government had then said it would not tolerate the diversion of funds meant for the development of the grassroots. But, the then main opposition party, Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) advised Jonathan to jettison the proposal. The party argued that scrapping the accounts and allocating the councils’ share of the federation account directly to them would amount to making them federating units. It was therefore not surprising when state Houses of Assembly voted against the proposal for financial autonomy for the local governments during the constitution amendment by the 7th National Assembly. Another attempt to free the councils from the grip of the states by the outgoing 8th National Assembly in another amendment to the constitution, also failed as the states Assembly turned down autonomy for the local governments. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, who then decried the rejection of autonomy for the third tier of government, said: “I will say that I am a bit disappointed because we would have delivered the long-awaited local government autonomy, but unfortunately, maybe our courage did not go that far. “This is an exercise that is ongoing. I believe that as this one failed this time, maybe next time as state Houses of Assembly are now independent, they would be able to extend this same independence to local governments. We all know the benefits of freeing the three tiers of government. So, please let us go ahead and do it.”  Arguments for LGs autonomy But, some political stakeholders insisted that as a federal state, Nigeria has three tiers of government – federal, state and local – whose intergovernmental relations, which include political, financial, judicial and administrative, are established by the constitution. They further maintained that each tier is required to operate within its area of jurisdiction, and any action to the contrary is null and void to the extent of its inconsistency with the law. This, they claimed, guarantees the autonomy of each tier. While the issue of autonomy for the councils lingered, stakeholders, including the national leadership of NULGE, called for urgent steps to be taken to save the local governments from extinction. The NULGE leadership at a time enlisted the support former President Olusegun Obasanjo in rescuing the local government system. The union’s president, Ibraheem Khaleel, told Obasanjo then: “As a major player in the 1976 Local Government Reform, we are aware that the mission was to make the councils independent. But, the situation has changed and the states have rendered the local governments impotent. As things are now, the governors cannot not do anything, that was why we decided to come to you to use your experience and not to allow the local government system go into extinction.” Obasanjo, who agreed with NULGE that state governments have incapacitated the councils, accused state governments of incapacitating local councils, wondering whether states could allow the federal government to do the same to them. His words: “There is no exception to this encroachment by states. Even though both are supposed to be separate tiers of government, with each having its roles and functions, that is not the case anymore. I wish I could help, but I am helpless. As it is, I can only help you to shout and talk to the world. I do not have any executive or legislative power. I am crippled. But we shall continue to talk until those who are reasonable among them change this attitude. I begin to wonder if they (states) can allow what they are doing to the local governments to be done to them.” Another former Nigerian leader, who voiced out against structural defect at the local government level is former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida. He maintained that financial autonomy for the councils is the only way to the nation’s rapid development. Babangida’s argument was that development will be even and sustained if allocations meant for the various local governments are released to them directly though he added that they should be made to account for how the funds are spent by way of monitoring the various projects initiated and executed to maintain quality.  Succour for the councils While the debate over autonomy for the local governments raged and Nigerians waited to see how the seeming ambiguities and contradictions in the constitution, which have aided the state governments in diverting funds meant for the local councils would be tackled, succor came recently for the councils. The Federal Government, through the newly inaugurated Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), which was excised from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), set June 1 as the take-off date of the new order, making it compulsory for all local governments’ allocations to go straight to their respective bank accounts. The guidelines would make the joint account system currently in use only exist for the receipt of allocations from the federation account but not for disbursement. This comes less than a year after President Muhammadu Buhari signed the NFIU Bill into law, thus separating the agency from the EFCC. The decisions were contained in a guideline released by the NFIU after a meeting with officials of commercial banks. The notice entitled: “Guidelines to reduce vulnerabilities created by cash withdrawals from LG funds throughout Nigeria, effective 1st June 2019.” Consequently, NFIU warned banks to comply with immediate effect, saying that any of them that flouts the order would be sanctioned. The agency said: “The NFIU requests all financial institutions, other relevant stakeholders, public servants and the entire citizenry to ensure full compliance with the provisions of the guidelines already submitted to financial institutions and relevant enforcement agencies, including full enforcement of corresponding sanctions against violations from June 1, 2019. “Having realized through analysis that cash withdrawal and transactions of the State/Joint Local Government Accounts poses biggest corruption, money laundering and security threats at the grassroots levels and to the entire financial system and the country as a whole, the NFIU decided to uphold the full provisions of Section 162 (6) (8)of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution as amended, which designated that State Joint Local Government Account into which shall be paid allocations to the local government councils of the state from the federation account and from the government of the state. “The amount standing to the credit of local government councils of a state shall be distributed among the local government councils of that state and not for other purposes. As far as the NFIU is concerned, the responsibility of the account as a collection account is fully reinstated. “In addition, taking such measures was necessitated by prompting reasons on the NFIU to respond to threats of isolating the entire Nigerian financial system by other international financial systems because of deficiencies in our anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing implementation. “Therefore, it is no longer possible to allow the entire system suffer the deliberate and expensive infractions or violations by public officials and/or private business interests. Henceforth, all erring individuals and com   panies will be allowed to face direct international and local sanctions, in order not to allow any negative consequences to fall on the entire country. “To be precise, with effect from 1st June, any bank that allows any transaction from any local government account without monies first reaching a particular local government account will be sanctioned. In addition, a provision is also made to the effect that there shall be no cash withdrawal from any local government for a cumulative amount exceeding N500,000 per day. Any other transaction must be done through valid cheques or electronic funds transfer.  “The complete guidelines have been released to the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and Chief Executive Officers of all banks and other financial institutions. “Any state government that is willing to seek any expert economic advice in the unlikely event of these guidelines constituting an inconvenience to the management of the state can work with the NFIU and / or CBN.” Anticipated legal hurdle and Senate’s intervention No doubt, the Federal Government’s move has a legal hurdle to surmount as Section 162 (8) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) empowers the states to distribute allocation to councils “among the local government councils of that state on such terms and in such manner as may be prescribed by the House of Assembly of the state,” but there is hope for the councils as the Senate last week resolved to throw its weight behind financial guidelines introduced by the NFIU.  The Senate’s resolution followed a motion by Senator Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC, Niger North). Presenting his motion tagged: “Guidelines to reduce vulnerabilities created by cash withdrawals from LG funds throughout Nigeria effective 1st June,” Abdullahi said issuance of the new guidelines was prompted by threats by international financial watchdogs to sanction Nigeria because of financial abuse. He added that the NFIU guidelines would reinforce the existence of local government as an independent government established by the constitution at the grassroots level with sovereign and elected officials. Deputy Senate president and chairman of the Senate Committee on Constitution Review, Ike Ekweremadu, in is contribution to the debate on the motion, urged the Senate to liaise with the NFIU to ensure that the guidelines do not contradict any part of the constitution.  While Ekweremadu appealed to states Assembly to fast-track work on pending constitution amendments, which would give legal backing to local government autonomy, he warned that the Senate’s position that financial institutions should support the implementation of the new guidelines contravenes Section 162(6 and 7) of the 1999 Constitution. He acknowledged that governors may challenge the move in court, but said the best option is to amend the various sections of the constitution to grant full autonomy to local governments. Deputy Senate majority leader, Bala Ibn Na’alla, in his contribution said: “If we succeed in executing this, 60 per cent of corruption in Nigeria will be resolved.  This will be a major landmark if the Senate decides to follow through its resolutions. Let all financial institutions agree, and all of us agree that we must follow these guidelines and let the local governments be autonomous.” Some former governors in the Senate like Adamu Aliero (Kebbi-APC) abd George Akume (Benue-APC), who supported the motion, said the reforms were overdue and will help free up funds for the development of local governments. But a former Plateau State governor, Senator Jonah Jang, who faulted the motion, said: “In some states, governors take over local government funds and abuse them, but we have also witnessed local government chairmen signing cheques at the beer parlours.”  He added: “Let this motion be withdrawn and let the appropriate constitutional amendment be put in place.” Jang’s prayer was however denied by his colleagues, who resolved to urge all financial institutions to support the implementation of the new guidelines and the federal government to urgently fund the operations of the new NFIU.  They also urged the 36 state governments to fully support the implementation of the guidelines, while calling on states Assembly to hasten constitutional amendment as regards local government autonomy. President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, who presided, urged the standing committees on Anti-Corruption and Financial Crimes as well as States and local governments to follow up and ensure that decisions reached by the Senate are adhered to. He said local governments as currently constituted cannot deliver dividends of democracy to the people as long as state governors are in charge of their funds.  Stakeholders react  For stakeholders, the move by the Federal Government is a step in the right direction. According to them, it will not only free the councils from the grip of state governors, but save them extinction. NULGE, for instance, said the new order will help curb reckless spending of local government funds by state governors across the country.  National President of the union, Comrade Ibrahim Khaleel, who spoke on behalf of the group, added that the regulation is a clear indication of the renewed fight against corruption by the Buhari-led government. His words: “We welcome the bold action by the Federal Government in coming up with these measures, which we are convinced will put a substantial halt to the hemorrhage of local government finances, which has over the years been flagrantly abused by state governors and their collaborators. “As a union, we will work with the relevant agencies of the Federal Government to ensure the successful implementation of the guidelines.  We will train our members across the length and breadth of the country to keep an eagle eye on the operations of the funds going to local government councils henceforth, to ensure that the abuse which has been perpetuated in the past are stopped for good. “We wish to commend Mr. President and commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, for sanctioning these guidelines. This has renewed our faith in the anti-corruption fight of the present government.  “Going forward, we call on all political parties to put forward credible and capable Nigerians to run for political office in our local government system, so that they can deploy their talent to run functional and credible government at the grassroots level. “In our history as a nation, this has happened before. We believe with the appropriate change in the mindset of our political elite, this can be rekindled, and our local government system, will once again be an agency for local and grassroots development.”  In the same vein, the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) said it was fully in support of the Federal Government. President of the Congress, Bobboi Kaigama, said in a statement “that cash transactions and withdrawals of the states from Joint LG Accounts is a threat to development at the grassroot; in fact, it even fans the embers of insecurity and major crisis.”  He added: “The governors have made a mess of the joint account system and have deprived local governments of their development initiative in their local areas leading to bad leadership. Whatever checks and balances principle that informed its establishment in the first place is no longer valid.  Therefore we fully support the circular and call on well-meaning Nigerians to do same. “While we commend the NFIU on this laudable initiative we equally urge the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and others to provide the necessary support. Governors must stop usurping the powers of council chairmen.”  A group, All Former Councillors Forum of Nigeria, in a lsetter of commendation to the President, jointly signed by its National Chairman, Chigozie Eze and Public Relations Officer, Matthew Ochonogor, described the fiscal autonomy to the third tier of the government as the tonic needed for accelerated development. It added that the autonomy will also help to reduce youth restiveness, unemployment and social crises and as well as deepening of democracy at the grassroots.”