 The best of African culture and commerce will be on display as WISH Africa launches its inaugural Expo at Olympia Conference Centre, Kensington, London.  The two-day event, which will hold on Saturday 8 and Sunday 9 June 2019, will feature African culture, commerce and development through educational cultural installations, a marketplace showcasing premium African goods and panel discussions by renowned industry experts. It will showcase the best of Africa art, architecture, design, food & drink, real estate, tech and travel.  Founder of Wish Africa, Lola Emeruwa, in a chat with New Telegraph, said the expo will focus on four countries from four corners of the African continent: Morocco (representing the North), Kenya (representing the East), Nigeria (representing the West) and South Africa (representing the South).  “June 2019 will see the launch of the inaugural travelling WISH Africa EXPO at Olympia London. It will mark the first stop of our tour before making its way to the continent. The expo is a multi-industry showcase of African culture, commerce and development,” she said.
According to her, following its London run the expo will travel to Morocco in 2020, followed by Nigeria in 2021, Kenya in 2022 and South Africa in 2023.  “Our mission is to promote a more positive image of Africa and Africans on the continent and in the Diaspora, Wish Africa believes that this will lead to greater cultural understanding, greater inter and extra African commerce, and have positive impact on the socio-economic development of the continent in these areas: Art & Design; Fashion; Travel; Food & Drink; Real Estate & Architecture; and Tech,” she said.  The expo will feature panel discussions by renowned industry experts such as Yinka Shonibare CBE; Ezzie Chidi-Ofong, Head of Video for Conde Nast; Alex Schoch, Senior Energy Director, TESLA and Amb. Abdesslame Aboudrar, Moroccan Ambassador to the UK, and others.
Founded in 2016 by Lola Emeruwa, WISH Africa is a social enterprise in the form of a media platform, the aim of which is to promote a more positive image of Africa and Africans around the world, in particular to generate both intra-African and inter-continental trade and commerce.  Emeruwa has worked in the luxury industry for over a decade with brands such as Louis Vuitton, Marc Jacobs, Stella McCartney, Net-A-Porter and Ermenegildo Zegna, in offices located in London, Milan, Paris, New York and Lagos. Her experience spans marketing, PR, visual merchandising, retail and buying, and she has thereby acquired a holistic view of how the fashion industry operates.  She has most recently worked on projects such as the African Cultural and Design Festival and The Nigerian Creative Arts Exchange with the Nigerian Embassy of France. In 2016, she launched WISH Africa, a social enterprise in the form of a media and marketing platform focused on culture, commerce and development in Africa.