 Despite being among the list of 41 items prohibited from accessing foreign exchange (forex) via the official window market by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), there are strong indications that about 103,000 tons of palm oil products was illegally imported into the country from Malaysia in the first quarter of 2019.
Managing Director of Okomu Oil Palm Company, Dr. Graham Hefer, disclosed this in an interview in Lagos.
He explained that records from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board of Statistics showed that in the first quarter of this year, importers from Nigeria have been besieging Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, for importation of crude palm oil and olein into the Nigerian market, despite being banned products in the country.
Hefer noted that the sabotage being sponsored by local importers of these products from Indonesia or Malaysia had already led to shutdown of local palm oil industry and working against investors’ plan of establishing new palm oil refinery in the country.
He said that it takes about N50 million to set up a palm oil refinery that can be replicated across the oil palm belt of Nigeria, but the illegal activities of palm oil importation through porous land borders was scaring away potential investors from the sector.
“We are very disappointed to see that in the last four months, there has been a lot of adulterated and illegal importation of crude palm oil and olein into the market,” he lamented. “We see that we can get olein freely available in supermarkets in Nigeria. They are from Indonesia or Malaysia. These are banned products that are not permitted into the country.”
He added: “Records from the Malaysian palm oil board of statistics showed that in the first quarter of this year, about 103,000 tons of palm products were imported into the country, this is now about four times the size of the 2018 import.”
Indeed, the Okomu oil boss prophesied that growth of local industries in the oil palm sector was doomed, due to heavy importation of foreign brands, with a clear danger that a crash in the price of palm oil in local market imminent, thereby putting their investments at risk.
“We are concerned that rather than ban the importation of palm oil into the country, ensure strict compliance and enforcement at the borders, the authorities preoccupies itself with sticking to only a commodity, which is crude oil,” he added.
Hefer bemoaned the Plantation Owners Forum of Nigeria that was already crying foul over the conspiracy to cripple the sector.
He said the association decried lack of government incentives and programmes to further promote palm oil farming and production in the country.
“Right now, there is no financial credit, technological support and other assistance from government and its agencies for our members that have injected billions of U.S. dollars into the industry,” he said.
“Whereas the cost of establishing a petroleum refinery is estimated at $500 billion, while a mere N50 million can be used to set up a palm oil refinery that can be replicated across the oil palm belt of Nigeria.”