A security guard, identified simply as Jerry, was killed while two other people were injured when suspected armed robbers stormed two filling stations at Asaba, Delta State. One of the attacked filling stations is located close to the official quarters of the Delta State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Adeleke Adeyinka. Adeyinka confirmed the attack in Asaba. He said: “It is true. I heard it this morning. The man that was killed was a security guard of the filling station. He was tied to a stake, where he later died.” The police boss explained that over N1 million was snatched from one of the fuel attendants, while over N200,000 was carted away from the other petrol station. He said that no arrest had been made. The robbers were said to have stormed the ill-fated stations, B2 Energy and the Verun petrol stations, situated on the popular Okwe Road on Monday night. The suspects broke into the strong room of one of the filling stations, before unleashing terror on the guards. The money stolen was proceeds of sales made over the weekend. An attendant, in one of the stations, said: “When we came to work in the morning, we saw our security guard, Mr. Jerry, dead. There was a rope tied round his neck and his face was covered with a bag, which used to be kept in our toilet. We raised the alarm. We later discovered that two other security guards were tied with rope in another location, with some of their teeth removed.” A police sergeant was killed while two people were injured when some suspected armed robbers stormed the Igando area of Lagos State and robbed three petrol stations. The stations are Fawa, Forte Oil and Dapsey. The incident was said to have occurred on Sunday last week. The robbers, all armed… In "Metro and Crime" Taiwo Jimoh Police arrested five suspected armed robbers terrorising Egbeda area of Lagos State. The suspects - Kehinde Jimoh (42), Ayomide Ibile (32), Musibau Gbadamosi (60), Ayodele Ojo (50) and Rasheed Adekunle (61) - were arrested by the operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). They were apprehended about 2a.m.… In "Metro and Crime" Motorists lament spending more money, time at filling stations The fuel situation in Nigeria has not improved significantly following the latest round of scarcity. Where petrol is available, motorists spend more money and time at filling stations to get the product. In this story, our correspondents looked at the situation… In "Features"