 Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George, in this interview, speaks on 20 years of democratic rule in the country, the position of former President Olusegun Obasanjo on insecurity and the purported jostling for the 2023 presidency. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  What is your assessment of the current state of the nation?  I speak today devoid of partisan frame, stripped of political identification, removed from any ethnic prejudice. I speak today as a concerned Nigerian elder and patriot. Our nation has reached an epochal stage this very month of May, in the year of our Lord 2019. Our democracy is now 20 years old of successive, uninterrupted continuity and maturation.  This by any standard or any stretch of historical interpretation ought to be celebrated if we were in normal times. But unfortunately, we are not in normal times. This is a period of ferment and tumult. Our nation is not at ease. We are all ill-defined, ill-shaped, broken into a thousand pieces.  The democratic purity is dangerously distorted, bruised, disfigured, savaged, hurled to the brink of a ruinous precipice. Our once glorious and beautiful mosaic of cultural plurality and sectarian diversity are being mangled, forfeited on the altar of infantile partisan and parochial divisions.  Alas, this nation is without ethical leadership, without honour, without credible vision, lacking in purposeful articulation. The scourge of nepotism, the poisonous bile of tribal triumphalism, the hate infested curse of provincial fixities are now gaining grounds everywhere, defining the thematic aberrations of our times.  It appears Nigerians are divided on how the country is being run by the incumbent…  Let us be truthful and frank; our nation is embattled, scourged and savaged by the virtual selfishness of our collective elites. We are all guilty for the present ravaged state of our troubled nation. The ogre created by the selfishness of the few has come to haunt us all.  But beyond the harsh confines of ethnic divisions, beyond the savageries of partisan furore, we are yet confronted by the murderous furies of bandits and faceless herdsmen, who continuously subject every inch of this nation to vast killing fields, where none can claim a refuge of undisturbed safety and guaranteed protective   cordon. Now, both the rich and the poor are easy targets.  The dividing lines are now blurred, indistinguishable, flung upon the whims and the reckless inflictions of murderous bandits, who negotiate with no one except when the price is right. We are now in a conundrum. Our nation is affrighted, thrown upon a suspended animation. We are hindered and halted in a cul de sac. Nothing seems bright and sunny anymore. But there must be a better way. We must return to the path of fairness and enlightened equity.  We must return to the path of balanced ingredients of democratic purity, where the logical essence of checks and balances prevail among the tripodal branches of the executive, legislature and judiciary. Justice must prevail over partiality, inequity and unfairness. The enlightened society can only be established when everyone, regardless of tribe and tongue, is treated fairly in the Nigerian commonwealth. This is my position. This is where I stand.  It will 20 years of democracy on May 29. As a country, have we moved forward with our democracy in the last 20 years?  What the current young generation must have seen is the military administrator and General Abdusalami Abubakar handing over powers to Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, and of course the emergence of the Fourth Republic.  But we have a saying in my part of the world that says that if you have somebody who is hunchback and carries a load on his head, you will see that wherever he is standing, the load is tilting to one side. If you tell the fellow to try and adjust the load, he will say no that you should look at him from his leg up and that is what is missing.  Where did the problem started from for Nigeria?  I will try to explain the problem from the time we gained independence and then you will be able to appreciate whether we are moving forward, stagnant or we have been going backward. In 1960, we   got independence; the British left us with three major regions; real, true federalism. At the centre, we had the prime minister; the premiers were also powerful because they managed the resources of their region for the benefit of their people, which is the real definition of democracy.  But, if you look at those three regions at that time, in the North, you have the majority tribe and the minority tribe, North Central was the minority in those days; in the East, you have the majority tribe and minority, who we now call the South-South; in the West, you also have the majority tribe and minority tribe.  But let’s look at it, for the Western region, the premier sat in Ibadan and the region extended up to the place called Boundary in Ajegunle, Idioro, Fadeyi, and Shomolu. Just imagine it, somebody sat in Ibadan and we all benefitted from the management style of the premier of the Western Region.   Was the benefit of governance at that limited to the Western Region? No, the same thing happened in the East and North, each region developed according to the resources available to the people. Now, with all the crisis that started in the Western Region that could have been well-managed, we lost the opportunity and eventually, Major Chukwuma Nzeogwu struck in the North and a section of leaders in the country, at the end, when the dust had settled started looking around and asking who killed who.   Then General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi, who was the head of the army came, you know the military is an organisation that is unique because of its concept of operation; that kind of management style cannot be replicated anywhere; it is always top to bottom structure.  Once an order is given at the top, you key into it all the way. That is not democratic; democracy must flow from bottom up because the people are affected, they elected those who will represent their needs to manage their resources for their betterment. But when the military came in 1966, I won’t go into the details of who did what and all that, the only thing they understood was the hierarchical structure, top-bottom order and they said they will run the country like that. Initially, the problems that were major in the First Republic were issues that had to do with the various minority groups in each of the regions.  Otherwise, everybody developed according to their needs, resources were available within the zones and then they were able to give a token to the national to maintain the army, borders, foreign policies and all that.   I want you to follow my thoughts because you will see where we deviated.  When the military came, every resource from anywhere, now came straight to the centre and the centre became extremely too strong. When General Yakubu Gowon came, the agitation of the minorities in each of the regions was high, because they see themselves as people that were only to be seen and not heard. So, one of the things he did to calm frayed nerves was the creation of 12 states to ease that tension. That eased the tension of the First Republic, but we are now left with another problem of creating a strong centre rather than allow the zones to survive on the resources available to them. That is one of the major problems that is yet to be resolved until today.     You were in the military and you are also experiencing the civil rule…  Yes, I’ve seen the two sides of rulership; I am happy that I was in the military, the discipline, the love for this country, the consternation of this nation, tribal sentiments were never an issue for us and we don’t say you are Yoruba, Igbo or Hausa. Your comrade is your comrade and you all have one goal of achieving the objective of your superior or powers.  That was the Nigeria that I saw. I want you guys to go and check this, creation of states and local governments have never been handled by any civilian administration, the military created all the states. All the resources of this country till today go to Abuja. That wasn’t the concept accepted for the federation of Nigeria.  Take one item, Value Added Tax (VAT) as an example, Lagos produces almost 80 to 85 per cent of the VAT in this country. But when it goes to the national basket and it is redistributed, what comes back here is about 11 per cent. Is that justifiable? I’m giving all these reasons to explain where these mistakes emanated from and unless we go back to do a correction to these ills, there would never be peace. It’s like you are trying to cover a smoke, for how long can you seal your pipes that they won’t leak out?  Nigeria is a massive nation and there is no area in the country that doesn’t have at least one Godgiven natural resources that if you tap into them for the benefit of the people, they won’t suffer and the states will survive on those things. But what we see is waiting for the largesse and the redistribution of the resources based on local governments.  Take my state, Lagos, our population is likely not less than 20 million. Now, how many local governments do we have in Lagos? Twenty! Kano and Lagos are about the same in terms of population, but Kano has 44 local governments and funding of those local governments come from the federal government. The question is: Why is that? We will take only 20 local governments and they will take 44. Is that justifiable? These are the issues at stake, the underbellies that are causing the ripples, but because of positions and what people want to become, they don’t talk about real issues.  Why are we alive if truth cannot be told? Ask me now, what do I want to still become at 75 years old that I won’t be able to say the truth at this level. I’ve been quite lucky to have seen the military, to have seen this country in the First Republic, to have seen what led to the civil war, the system of governance of the military and their handing over to civilian administration, when we should have gone back to the real federalism, we continued the military concept of operation and that is the major problem till today.  So, the question of whether we are going forward, stagnant or retrogressing is a combination of the three. If you start shuffling yourself on the spot, you will think you are moving forward, but you are only shaking on a spot.  What should be done to reverse the mistakes and address national issues for the development of the country?  Having explained to you the mistakes of where we are coming from and the fact that nobody is addressing the issues, I will refer you to the outcome of the 2014 National Conference, which thankfully, I was part of. Every item of the agenda at the conference was debated in the full session and at the end, everything was unanimously adopted. And these issues are restructuring, resource control, state police, need for federated states, among others.  Why should it be the concern of the man sitting in Abuja as head of state to want to know what is going on in Ajegunle, Aba or Zamfara? It cannot work and that is one of the solutions proffered at the conference; release all these things through federalism, proper restructuring that will make the governors to be in the driving seats of their states.  People will now start to realize that if they don’t elect a proper and sound governor to manage their resources, they will suffer for it. All these selections by the Emperor of Burdillion will cease because the people would have the chain of command to elect their own leaders to manage their resources. Part of the benefit of restructuring that we are canvassing for is for states to tap into their resources; so that we can move away from oil, they are going to stop the production of crude oil engine by 2040; what are we going to do?  Nigeria is in a precarious situation now, until we go back to true federalism where the management of the country would be from bottom to top, the states will control their resources, we should not expect anything good from Nigeria  Democracy Day has been shifted from May 29 to June 12. Have we been able to live out the tenets of what Chief MKO Abiola represents or are we just playing politics with change of date?  Historically, that shift makes a lot of sense for us to remember heroes of the past, those who have been wounded in the past and cheated. But the benefit of history is for you to make sure that the mistakes of the past are never repeated. If you shift it to any date, has that brought food to the tables of Nigeria or has it given our children quality education? Has it improved our roads and networks? What about the cheatings and manipulations of results, have those things disappear? What impact does that have on the current administration?  Yes, no matter how you want to write the history, even if you manipulate it, Chief MKO Abiola will feature in a section of that history. But what have we learnt to correct? The APC can continue to beat their chest that they moved Democracy Day to June 12, but what has it got to do with the price of milk in the market and what impact has that brought to the people? These are deceitful things but we are now talking about the real situation. Let us face it, is this nation now as defined a healthy nation? Are the investors happy to invest here?  Why are they running away from Nigeria? What are we doing? The tribal and religion division in this country has never been this heightened. Shouldn’t that be a major concern for us? June 12 hasn’t got anything to do with this. What is going on?  We had existed together for years and the respect for each other is a sine qua non for civilized living in this country, no half measures. My best friend till today remains a Fulani man, who I met in the military. But the way we are going now, creating unnecessary tribal divisions and expanding it, why? Things have never been this bad in this country and the way we are going about it is creating unnecessary division. What is our problem as Nigerians?  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo recently decried the heighted level of insecurity in the country and his comments drew flaks. What is your take on the issue?  When Obasanjo left office as military head of state in 1979, remember Shagari’s election, a lot of Yoruba people blacklisted him saying he should have handed over to Pa Obafemi Awolowo instead of a Fulani man. There was no name that he was not called, but Obasanjo is not a frivolous man, he is a straightforward person.  The comment he made was an observation that things are not going right in this country. The incursion of herdsmen is disturbing. He is also a farmer and a lot of farmers are complaining bitterly that their farms are being ravaged. My friend, the former governor of Jigawa, Sule Lamido, accused Obasanjo who has always been a nationalist of being a bigot. What Lamido said were absolute nonsense and an insult. Does he know what Obasanjo suffered? He has always been a nationalist in the eyes of Nigerians.  Was it not the same man who made Lamido what he is by giving him the opportunity to become a minister? But he is now turning round to call him a bigot. Why did Lamido not find out from Obasanjo why he made that statement? Prof. Wole Soyinka made the same observation that Obasanjo made and you know that both men are not usually on the same page.  Maybe, we should reverse roles and get some Agbekoya farmers from the South-West to go to Lamido’s village and start ravaging farmlands, then we would know what he would say. What is right is right and what is wrong is wrong. I invite Lamido to come to the South-West and I will take him round the villages, so that he can what these farmers who are losing their livelihoods are feeling. Our people are complaining about the sudden incursion and increased activities of herdsmen in the South-West; why can’t Lamido see through that prism?  We should be careful about some of the reckless comments that we make. Does it mean if tomorrow an Igbo man becomes the president, Igbo traders will now carry cutlasses and chase everyone away from their villages? What Obasanjo said has nothing to do with decimating the Fulani kingdom. What is the sudden awareness? Buhari should use his position as the president of the Fulani herdsmen in West Africa to calm these people down. It is a challenge to him. I know he did it when Lam Adesina was governor in Oyo State, let him do it again.   President Muhammadu Buhari is yet to be sworn-in for a second term, but there is noise about ambitions of some people including the former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, in 2023. Do you think this is fair enough?  My take on this is that I cry for my beloved country.  Like many people have observed, I am even shocked. Who knows who will live by tomorrow? Only God knows. Now, they have started projecting for 2023, this silly inordinate ambition is what is driving our country into the gutter. Because he got it easy in Lagos, he thinks such will happen at the national level? Let him even go to Ogun State here and see if he will get away with anything. This is what my English teacher used to tag as ‘you are ignorantly arrogant’ and that is how I can describe it. It is only the Almighty God who proffers and delivers, nobody else.  You don’t have control on the day you are born, the family and tribe, and the day you will exit. It is only God who knows tomorrow, not a human being. We should pray for such characters, they amaze me. Where are those leaders of yesterday, those who have made names in politics? Have these ambitious fellows sat down to think what the world will remember them for when they are gone? We must pray for these ambitious people so that God will work on their minds to serve the people and not themselves. You can’t carry anything into the grave the day you exit. We need to pray for them.