The perspective that everything is politics regardless of religious creed is perhaps what is playing out in the position of the National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF) on some sensitive national issues. WALE ELEGBEDE reports  The Nigerian political setting is dynamic. On a daily basis, political events and issues evolve like steam; people react based on their standpoints and affiliation, hence their positions on such issues are from the prism of their perspectives. Interestingly, the lifespan of political discourse and topics in the country is diminutive; they fizzle out just as they appear. But for a group, the National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF), there is no handpicking of response to any issue that concerns its constituency (Christianity). They don’t make pretense about their stance, however, scathing it looks and sounds. For them, their position should not fizzle away so soon or be glossed over without requisite action and reaction. The Forum, which has made topical interventions on several national issues had amassed friends and foes in similar proportion especially in the run-up to the just concluded 2019 general elections.  Formation of NCEF The NCEF came to being in the wake of 2015 general elections that pitted then incumbent President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan and General Muhammadu Buhari, in a race that defined itself with various interests. Inaugurated on January 15, 2015 by the then President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor, the National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF), the Forum was created to make statements in defense of Christianity in Nigeria, as well as promote peace and unity among Christians and Nigerians, as a whole. It was also structured to accommodate and made up of Christian Elders from the six geo-political zones in the country. The National Christian Elders Forum is being piloted by a former Minister of Defence, Lt. Gen. Theophilus Danjuma (rtd.) and Solomon Asemota (SAN), who is the chairman of the group. Aside from Danjuma and Asemota, other members of NCEF are Prof. Joseph Otubu, Gen. Joshua Dogonyaro (rtd.), late Archbishop Magnus Atilade, Dr. (Mrs) Kate Okpareke, Dr. Ayo Abifarin, Gen. Zamani Lekwot (rtd.), Elder Moses Ihonde, Elder Nat Okoro and Elder Matthew Owojaiye. Other members included Justice Kalajine Anigbogu (rtd.), Elder Shyngle Wigwe, DIG P. L. Dabup, Sir John W. Bagu, Dr Saleh Hussaini, Elder Mike Orobator, Justice James Ogebe, JSC (rtd.), Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife, Chief Debo Omotosho, Dame Priscilla Kuye, Dr S. D. Gani, Mrs Osaretin Demuren, Prof. Yussuf Turaki; late former General Secretary of CAN, Dr. Musa Asake and Bosun Emmanuel who is the Forum’s Secretary.  Running feud with CAN Although it was said to be birthed by the CAN, the Elders Forum is not having it rosy with its parent body especially in the tenure of the incumbent chairman of the religious association, Ayokunle. In December 2018, Adebayo Oladeji, the spokesperson of the CAN President, Samson Ayokunle, in a statement, said CAN was ‘dissolving’ the NCEF, following the failure of both parties to reach an amicable resolution. CAN averred that its decision to publicly severe ties with NCEF was prompted by what it described as the baseless allegations against Ayokunle, its chairman, by the NCEF and “its agents”. “The National Executive Committee of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), at its meeting of Tuesday, November 20, 2018, unanimously applauded the CAN President for the unprecedented achievements recorded under his watch and dissolved the National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF) due to irreconcilable differences with its activities,” he said. The CAN statement accused the NCEF of “using the social media and a section of the traditional media to attack its leadership” by disseminating “unprintable words” against the association, following what CAN described as its failure to “take directives from the Elders Forum”. “CAN NEC, by the same powers that inaugurated the forum, forthwith dissolves and dissociates completely from the NCEF in view of the incongruous and unacceptable operations manifested consistently by the group,” the statement added. CAN also said the recent meeting by its NEC commended Ayokunle for his various efforts towards uniting the church in Nigeria. Reacting, the secretary of the NCEF, Emmanuel, submitted that CAN lacks the powers to dissolve the group. The NCEF in the statement recounted its history, saying it was formed by a group “outside CAN” and therefore submitted that it cannot be dissolved by the Christian association. According to the NCEF, the forum was formed by three founding members who were part of another group: the Christian Social Movement of Nigeria, (CSMN), which had given birth to the forum.  It explained that its founding members including the NCEF Chairman, Solomon Asemota, had invited the former CAN President, Ayo Oritsejafor, to inaugurate the group after it was formed by the CSMN.  “CAN Trust Fund was established by CAN and its bank account was opened in the name of CAN. The National Christian Elders Forum was established by CSMN. The bank account operated by the NCEF is in the name of CSMN and not in the name of CAN.  Backed fresh candidates, parties ahead of APC, PDP  In the wake of the 2019 general elections, the Forum stood aloof and didn’t publicly endorse any party or candidate despite organising a screening exercise for new presidential candidates in the race. However, the Forum didn’t hesitate to drop a damming verdict on the two leading parties in the country, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), describing them as “two evils” that Nigerians must not vote for in 2019. Speaking on behalf of the Forum before the general elections, Asemota said: “Nigerians must begin to clamour for new candidates and new political parties. “Jointly, the PDP and the APC impoverished and pauperised Nigerians and turned the country into the poverty capital of the world. “It makes sense to reject the two frontline parties, the APC and the PDP, for lack of credible performance. We are already sensitised as to what is ahead with the slogan: ‘Two evils.’ Of course, the wishes of the elders after the February 23 presidential election didn’t come to pass, if anything, the two parties Forum so loathed took the first and second position, and between them, swept the National Aseembly election.  Taking on APC at will However, just after the election, the NCEF appeared to have lowered its attack gate against the PDP which lost the presidential election and somehow raised the bar of criticism against the ruling APC. No sooner had the elections over than the elders group started firing on all cylinders against the APC-led government. Expectedly, its irk drew attention, both positive and negative.   Condemned CAN’s congratulatory visit to Buhari The group grabbed the headlines when it on April 2, released a press statement faulting the “congratulatory” visit of the Christian Association of Nigeria to President Muhammadu Buhari on his victory in the 2019 general elections, describing it as “morally and spiritually reprehensible.” The statement, signed by its Chairman, Asemota, said the action of the CAN President, was a further confirmation of all their protests and petitions in 2018, querying his faithfulness to Christ and to His Church The NCEF statement, titled, ‘Not on our behalf, CAN President, Not on our behalf,’ said such visit was “subjudice” as the determination of who won the 2019 general election “is still in court.” The organisation alleged that from “the ill-advised congratulatory visit to President Buhari,”, which it said amounted to subjudice, it should be clear to every Christian of good conscience that the President of CAN, Rev. Sampson Ayokunle “is running CAN as an appendage of the All Progressives Congress.” The statement read in part: “It is therefore premature and presumptuous for anyone to congratulate President Buhari for ‘winning’ an election that is contested in court. The NCEF wishes to state that the congratulatory visit to Aso Villa by CAN could not be in the interest of Nigerian Christians who daily bear the agony of thousands of their brethren being killed, maimed, displaced and marginalised in the jihad launched in the northern parts of the country. “It is well known the indifference of the Buhari administration to the murder of Christians all over the country. This indifference has led many, including foreign observers, to conclude that the Buhari administration is complicit in the genocide that is taking place in Nigeria, ” the elders said.  But contesting the position of the elders against its visit to President Buhari, the CAN described NCEF’s condemnation as “baseless.” The association said this in a statement signed by its Director Legal and Public Affairs, Samuel Kwamkur. Kwamkur said the NCEF which has been disbanded by the leadership of CAN almost a year ago has no right to fault the decision of CAN. According to Kwamkur: “It is right for CAN to visit and congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari who has been declared winner of the just concluded 2019 presidential election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).  “I was part of the delegation of CAN, it is getting to one year now since CAN disassociated itself from the activities of the National Christian Elders Forum (NCEF). The decision to visit President Muhammadu Buhari is not supposed to be with their knowledge since they are not part of CAN.” It is also in the statement that CAN have disbanded NCEF and they have no reason to join issues with the association. “If CAN is going right they will go left. CAN has no business with the Elders’ Forum on this matter. Most of the leaders of CAN were in that team who went to see President Muhammadu Buhari. The five blocs constituting CAN was fully represented by the leaders of the blocs.” CAN added in its statement that: “Christians are advised to respect authorities. The bible did not say respect the leaders that love you or behave well to you. There is no condition to that admonition in the bible. If you read our speech to President Buhari we stated that we visited because INEC has declared Buhari winner. “There is nothing wrong with the opposition going to court. In fact, we appreciate the moves to avoid crisis after election. If the court later decided in favour of the opposition, CAN will also go and congratulate the person again. We have also taken decision to see the opposition and share with them to encourage the rightful moves. “I do not see why we should be fighting over this. We have been confronting this administration with the truth. How can the elders forum want to summon the CAN president and direct him on what to do? It is not proper.” Bickering over Onnoghen’s suspension Recently, the NCEF described the conviction of the former Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, by the Code of Conduct Tribunal as part of “the jihad” against Christians in the country. The elders group claimed the development was a continuation of the “jihad that began with the overthrow of General Yakubu Gowon in 1975”. In a statement issued Asemota, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, alleged that while proceeds from oil and gas in the South were shared by all Nigerians, “gold and other precious minerals in the North belong to the North alone to complete annexation of the South to the North He added: “President Buhari in 1983 committed treason when he overthrew the   Shehu Shagari government. This is in addition to the fact that he was one of the seven colonels who masterminded the overthrow of General Yakubu Gowon in 1975. “It was the same coup plotters that retired Chief Justice Elias, a Muslim but was a committed democrat, in order to Islamise Nigeria by replacing a Federal Republic with a Sultanate. “Today, Justice Walter Onnoghen’s removal through stealth jihad of the executive is the continuation of the jihad that began with the overthrow of General Gowon in 1975,” he said. But in a swift reaction, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), urged NCEF not politicise the conviction of Onnoghen, stating that saying that what Nigeria needs is peaceful atmosphere. According to the Director of MURIC, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, Nigerians should stop heating the polity, adding that Nigerian Muslims have no Islamisation agenda, saying “we are willing to peacefully coexist with both Christians and traditionalists as neighbours and on equal terms. MURIC said: “We are still wondering about what happened to NCEF. This is a group of elders who, ceteris paribus, should know better and, consequently, contribute positively to the national discuss. But we are perturbed by its pedestrian outbursts.
“The most arbitrary claim of the group has to do with the removal of the suspended CJN. NCEF claimed the removal of Onnoghen is a continuation of stealth jihad which began with the coup against Gowon. It is as ludicrous as it is infantile.”  Stakeholder speak Speaking on the development, the Resident Pastor of Harmony and Peace Ministries, Akure, Ondo State, Pastor Rotimi Adenekan, said the duties of elders as prescribed in I Peter 5: 1-4, urged Christian elders to lead the flock according to the will of God and exercise oversight, not under compulsion, but proving to be examples to the flock. He added: “As Christian leaders and elders, we must be very careful to draw the lines because the ministry we have received is a sensitive one that we can’t afford to taint with anything especially politics.”  