 Okwuegbu Egenti is the Ebonyi State Coordinator of Legal Aid Council of Nigeria. In this interview with UCHENNA INYA, he speaks on Council’s role in nation’s criminal justice system, decongestion of prison, inmates’ rehabilitation, among others   Is Legal Aid Council a creation of law? The Legal Aid Council was created under the Federal Ministry of Justice that has the mandate to speak for the voiceless; the indigent litigants, indigent inmates in the prison, the less privileged in the society. These are the people we usually handle their matters both in civil and criminal cases but mainly on criminal.  We also assist people that their rights are trampled upon in enforcing their fundamental human rights and civil matters that people are denied their properties. We file for their action and pray court to give them judgments. We usually go to prisons twice in a month to interview the inmates and when we interview them, we get the one that doesn’t have representative in court and we take up the matter and assign the matter to a lawyer in the council and the lawyers start handling it even to Supreme Court. Yes. There is a one that we have now which emanated from the state here. So, we usually follow it up to the end.  Who bankrolls the council especially resources being spent on behalf of indigent inmates? We are civil servants; we are employed under the Federal Ministry of Justice. We usually receive our statutory monthly salaries. The joy of it all is that when you secure justice for the less privileged or the poor ones, such person will never forget you and before God almighty, your mind will keep telling you that you have done justice here.  Another happiness of it is that you have given the person another opportunity to live. Like in a murder case somebody between life and death and most of the matters here we usually secure their discharge and you see the new life in the person.
But in some matters like murder cases and armed robbery, we have problem there because sometimes after securing the release of the person within a month you see the person committing the same crime and still wait for your services. Currently, we have a matter in court. The person is facing a charge of armed robbery and has up to six cases in different courts. He robbed six separate persons. Sometimes, you will defend this court successfully and what you have here, the prosecution may use it to implicate him in another one. So, these are some of the predicaments we are having.  How long has this council existed here in Ebonyi state? This council started from 1998 when it was established. Within this range, we have handled up to 5,700 cases from 1998 till date and we have secured about 2,700 discharge and acquittal. Some of them usually end up through Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) mainly on civil matters. When they approach you, we interview them and then advise them the proper way. We may invite the other side or the lawyer on the other side will highlight issues and sort them outside the one we handle through ADR. But the one we handle in normal court procedure up to Supreme Court, we have secured up to 2,752 cases.  How do you monitor those acquitted or rehabilitate them? Honestly, we do monitor them. There is a form we call compliance form that we usually serve to them when securing their discharge. That form is for them to be loyal and obedient to their parents and the society in general, that any we find him wanting in issues involving crime, we will showcase his ordeal in the case we secured his discharge or any other thing and brandish it before the court to showcase that he has a bad character. That has already helped in converting most of them. We have somebody we secured his release that is now a Reverend Father, the other one is in Ghana doing business. We have good ones among them in the society. The other one is already a lecturer, he is among the person we released in 2005 when I joined this office. He was involved in alleged burglary and stealing. The mother kept on crying to us and we followed it up and secured his discharge. Unfortunately, before he comes out of the prison, the mother died. We told him that what he will do for his mother is to turn a new leaf and since the mother is now dead, we will always be there to support him and he took it up. Now he is a lecturer at Federal Polytechnic Oko, Anambra state.  We usually feel very happy when we see these people. We feel that we have succeeded in turning a new leaf because in prison, they have a lot of bad boys there that usually recruit them to harden them. Some of them when they come out, they will tell you ‘please o, I don’t want trouble.’ There is a particular one we secured his release last year who was facing a murder charge. When his family summoned a meeting, he just came out and was listening to them; he will not say anything throughout the meeting. If they summon a village meeting, he will not talk. If he goes out, he will not talk. He was just watching how to begin a new life; he said he never knew he would have a second chance to live. He just called me and said Oga, I want to learn how to roof a building. I told him to go ahead and promised to assist him from our salary. So, we usually feel happy seeing them turning a new leaf.  What type of crime is common in this state? In this part of the country, crime is very rampant especially robbery, kidnapping, burglary and stealing and how to get rich quick. Some of them will even graduate from burglary and stealing to armed robbery, from armed robbery to kidnapping and before you know it, the person will be arrested or lynched by mob action. Are there important cases this council has lost and how do you feel about them? Honestly speaking, we have lost 35 percent of our cases and we usually feel bad when we lost these matters. There is matter that we know as bad case but as advocates defending the other side, we always wait for loopholes where the normal court processes is not followed so that we will bank on technicalities or any grounds. In the matter that the person that committed a crime ran to police and said yes, I killed this person, this is the reason I killed him, he slept with my wife. There was one I handled in Ohaozara where the accused person owned up and said he killed a man that owed him N1,000. He said he has been begging the man to pay him the money that he needed it to live. The man refused to pay him and he killed him and ran to the police. When court asked him, he said he did it. So, there is no magic you can do in this type of matter. But if there is any room for any circumstantial link where you are looking for any corroboration or that he was tortured before making the confessional statement, that is where the advocacy will come in and we usually battle it with the state Director of Public Prosecution and possibly secure their release.  It is a common face in Ebonyi State where some hospitals detain patients for not paying their bills after being treated and discharged. Is it constitutional, does this council also treat this type of matter? The Council can only come in when their rights are being infringing upon. Like in the issue you just presented, it is mainly financial but on the issue of restraining them that they can’t move out, that will amount to infringement of their fundamental human rights on their rights to free movement. When we enforce that right, the hospital will raise the issue and say that it is because they owe them and that is why they are detaining them but it amounts to unlawful detention if you say this type of person shouldn’t move out because he still owing. On the other way round, the NGOs, governments, individuals and general public should intervene in assisting the general patients.  How do you handle trump up charges against accused persons or inmates? There is a lot of thrashing it out either through quash or during trial. Police at times collect money and come up with a charge against a suspect and arraign such person but these are the things we are saying that when administration of criminal justice is domesticated, it will help a lot. If it is domesticated, there will be no room for trump of charges because before you record anybody’s statement, his lawyer must be there and it must be video recorded and the whole world will hear him. 