E-commerce giant, Jumia, said its Gross Merchandise Value (GVM) rose by 58 per cent in the first quarter of this year to hit N240 million.
The company said this was driven by a combination of attractive value proposition to sellers and consumers.
Announcing the result in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer of Jumia Nigeria, Mrs Juliet Anammah, explained that the GVM refers to the value of confirmed valid orders before cancellations and returns.
Anammah disclosed that through its brand awareness and localised marketing approach, Jumia was able to achieve an improved 2.05 percent of marketing efficiency in Q1 2019, bringing the Sales & Advertising expense from 7.2 per cent of GMV in Q1 2018 to 5.1 per cent in the Q1 2019.
“Other highlights included marketplace revenue growth of 102 per cent to N16million, and gross profits as a percentage of GMV growth of 6.5 per cent in Q1 2019 versus the same period in 2018. Overall, Jumia’s operating losses for the period widened to N45.4m from N34.3m and negative EBITDA increased to N39.5m from N30.2m”, she said.
While responding to allegations levelled against the e-commerce company by a controversial stock seller, Citron Research, Anammah described the allegation as false. “Jumia stands by the disclosures made in the prospectus, which accurately describe our business and the related risks in all material respects. We are very excited about the future and our prospects. We will not be distracted from executing our strategy and carrying out our mission because of people who seek to create doubt to profit at our Company’s expense, “she said.
This was coming after the report alleged that Jumia’s listing on New York Stock Exchange was fraudulent and also claiming its equity worthless. The aftermath made its share go downhill since with the stock recording six straight days of decline.
Anammah explained that the company added 1.3 million active users between the first quarter of 2018 and first quarter of 2019. “Citron Report is misleading and mischievous because it focused on a month period as against the 12 months stretch. We look at our GMV the same way Alibaba looks at theirs. Gross Merchandise Value is gross prior to cancellation and returns in a twelve month period and that is the way we disclosed this,” she noted.