From Musa Pam, Jos Fresh violence has erupted in some part of Jos North Local Government Area of Plateau State with a number of persons killed, some injured and several houses burnt. While confirming the incident to New Telegraph, the Police Public Relation Officer in Plateau State, DSP Mathias Terna Tyopev assured that security men have been drafted to arrest the situation. He said, “We have received reports of tension around Dutse Uku, Rikkos, Cele Bridge and we have mobilised our personnel to the area. “As we speak, the Area Commander, Jos Metropolis is there on ground.” However a resident of the area, who identified himself as Mr Paul Musa said there has been tension in the area since last week when a boy from Angwan Miango was found dead at the boundary between the community and neighboring Rikkos, a community of Hausa extractions in the Metropolis. “The tension emanating from the killing was however doused by the security agents. “Again, on Sunday morning, another boy from the same Angwan Miango was allegedly killed when he went to wash at Cele River, a stream that runs between the Angwan Miango and Rikkos community. “Angered by the spate of killing the natives from Angwan Miango took a fight to their Hausa neighbour in Rikkos. ” This fight degenerated into full blown mayhem with gunshots rending the air and houses set ablaze. The violence has also spread from the two communities to neighboring Dutse-Uku, even as residents of Tina Junction and Yantrailer now have their hearts in their mouths. “A retired military personnel identified as Babayale was hit by stray bullet right in his compound, and has been confirmed dead. New Telegraph gathered that Some churches, on getting winds of the crisis had to immediately end their services in order to dismiss worshippers to their homes. Meanwhile, the security agents including a Special Military Force are currently struggling to control the affected communities and avoid further escalation. Our correspondents gathered that trouble began when a corpse of a Christian boy was found, and the Christan area raise the alarm and this has always been the trend in the area; once anyone cross over to the other side, his or her safety was never guaranteed. Thereafter, gunshots began renting the air from all sides and people running helter skelter, including those coming back from church. Houses were set ablaze within the borders of the crises. Soldiers, mobile police and other security agents have been drafted to the area.