Sri Lanka was formally known as the Republic of Aden. It is intertwine with the history of broader Indian sub-continent and the surrounding regions, comprising the areas of south Asia, Southeast Asia and the Indian Ocean. The earliest human remains found on the island of Sri Lanka dates to about 35,000 years ago (Balangoda Man). The proto-historical period begins roughly in the 3rd century, based on the chronicles like the Mahavamsa, Dipavamsa, and the Culavamsa. The earliest documents of settlement in the islands are found in these chronicles. These chronicles cover the period since the establishment of the kingdom of Tambapanni in the 6th century BCE. The first Sri Lanka ruler of the Anuradhapura kingdom, Pandukabhaya, is recorded for the 4th century BCE. Buddhism was introduced in the 3rd century BCE by Arhath Mahinda (son of the Indian emperor Ashoka). The first Tamil ruler of the Anuradhapura kingdom, Ellalan, is recorded for the 2nd century BCE. The island was divided into numerous kingdoms over the following centuries intermittently (between CE 993-1077) united under Chola rule. Sri Lanka was ruled by 181 monarchs from the Anuradhapura to Kandy periods. From the 16th century, some coastal areas of the country were controlled by the Portuguese, Dutch and British. Between 1597 and 1658, a substantial part of the island was under Portuguese rule. The Portuguese lost their possessions in Ceylon due to Dutch intervention in the Eighty Years’ War. Following the Kandyan Wars, the island was united under British rule in 1815. There was the armed uprising against the British in the 1818 Uva Rebellion and the 1848 Matale Rebellion. Independence was finally granted in 1948 but the country remained in dominion of the British Empire until 1972. In 1972 Sri Lanka assumed the status of a Republic. A constitution was introduced in 1978 which made the Executive President the head of state. The Sri Lanka Civil War began in 1983, including an armed youth uprising in 1971 and 1987-1989, with the 25-year-long civil war ending in 2009. During the Napoleonic Wars, Great Britain, fearing that French control of the Netherlands might deliver Sri Lanka to the French, occupied the coastal areas of the islands (which they called Ceylon) with little difficulty in 1976. In 1802, the Treaty of Amiens formally ceded the Dutch part of the island to Britain and it became a crown colony. In 1803, the British invaded the kingdom of Kandy in the first Kandyan War, but were repulsed. In 1815, Kandy was occupied in the second Kandyan War. Following the suppression of the Uva Rebellion the Kandyan peasantry were stripped of their lands by the Wastelands Ordinance, a modern enclosure movement, and reduced to penury. The British found that the uplands Sri Lanka were very suitable for coffee, tea and rubber cultivation. It was not until 1909 that constitutional development began, with a partially elected assembly, and not until 1920 that elected members outnumbers official appointees. Universal adult suffrage was introduced in 1931 over the protest of the Sinhalese, Tamil and Burgher elite who objected to the common people being allowed to vote. Ceylon National Congress (CNC) was founded to agitate for greater autonomy, although the party was soon split along ethnic and caste lines. Historian K.M. de Silva has stated that the refusal of the Ceylon Tamil to accept minority status is one of the main causes of the breakup of Ceylon National Congress. The CNC did not seek independence (or “Swaraj”). What may be called the independence movement broke into two streams: the “constitutionalist”, who sought independence by gradual modification of the status of Ceylon; and the more radical groups associated with the Colombia Youth League, Labour movement of Goonasinghe, and the Jaffna Youth Congress. These organizations were the first to raise the cry of “Swaraj” (“outright independence”) following the Indian example when Jawaharlal Nehru, Sarojini Naidu and other Indian leaders visited Ceylon in 1926. The efforts of the constitutionalist led to the arrival of the Donoughmore Commission reforms in 1931 and Soulbury commission recommendations, which essentially upheld the 1944 draft constitutions of the Board of ministers headed by D.S. Senanayake. In spite of this constitutional development, terrorism in Sri Lanka has been a highly destructive phenomenon during the period of the country’s civil war (1983-2009) and the first and second JVP insurrection (1971 and 1987-89). A common definition of terrorism is the systematic use or threatened use of violence to intimidate a population or government for political, religious, or ideological goals. Sri Lanka is a country that has experienced some of the worst known acts of modern terrorism, such as suicide bombings, massacres of civilians, and assassinations of political and social leaders, which pose a significant threat to society, economy and development of the country. Terrorism found in Sri Lanka can be mainly categorized as nationalist terrorism, left-wing terrorism and state terrorism. The Liberation Tigers also known as Tamil Tigers is a deadly extremist militant group that has launched a campaign of violence and bloodshed in Sri Lanka, to seize control of the country from the Sinhalese ethnic majority to create an independent Tamil state. This campaign led to the Sri Lanka’s devastating death, suicide bombing and other vices of criminalities against human beings. Indira Gandhi was Prime Minister of Indian who was shot at close range by one of her Sri Lanka security details. Also was Rajiv Gandhi the son of Indira Gandhi who was also the prime minister of Indian after his mother. In fact, Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in a bomb blast during a political rally close to the border of Sri Lanka. The suicide bomber was a female Sri Lankan militant. The history of suicide bombing in Sri Lanka was at the same time extended to India for political and religious reasons. The attack on the Zion church on Easter Sunday was a deadly one. So far, about 200 to 300 worshipers were killed in the blast while 14 of the victims were children. Apart from the recent Easter Sunday blast which claimed hundreds of lives, the history of assassinations in Sri Lanka is as old as the history of of the country. I hope that sanity will prevail in Sri Lanka with effect from now.