Rights and political activists, Deji Adeyanju, has urged the Nigerian Senate not to confirm the reappointment of the current Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele. Mr Adeyanju said this is because of the alleged of mismanaging and looting public funds in the Central Bank to the tune of 500 Billion Naira. Sahara Reporters had reported earlier a telephone conversation involving the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele; his deputy, Edward Adamu; the Director of Finance, Dayo Arowosegbe; and the Special Adviser to the CBN Governor, Emmanuel Ukeje. The online medium said the discussion of the top CBN officials was about a plot to cover up the huge loss after a private investment in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, went bad. In a statement made available to New Telegraph, Adeyanju said “the Nigerian people and indeed the world over are hoping that the Eight Senate will not fall short of expectation in denying Mr. Emefiele a second-term confirmation, especially because the Eight Senate had once proven its strong aversion towards anti-corruption by refusing to confirm the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, due to allegations of corruption made against him by a report of the DSS.” The statement reads in part; “Indubitably, the legacy of the Eight Senate is presently at enviable heights considering the successes that have been recorded thus far, including the passage of the NotTooYoungToRun and PoliceReform Bills, among others. “It will, therefore, be terribly retrogressive to allow whatsoever political pressure drive this lofty institution into making an anti-people and morally shameful decision of confirming Mr. Godwin Emefiele for a second-term, at the risk of subjecting Nigeria’s economic and common wealth to more looting and plunder. “Consequently, it must be clearly stated that the Nigerian people are expecting the Eight Senate to not only deny Mr. Emefiele a second-term reappointment, but to also ensure that investigation and prosecution are duly employed to ensure justice on the matter, and deterrence in the future. By doing this, the Eight Senate will not only be fulfilling its obligation as a moral compass in a democracy but also as a worthy model for the Ninth Senate and others to come in future. “The above-mentioned must be noted well as the credibility and achievements of the Eight Senate may be badly stained and diminished should it refuse to abide by the wishes of the Nigerian people by denying Mr. Emefiele a reappointment. “Also, the mobilization of angry citizens might inevitably follow if the Eight Senate confirms Mr. Emefiele for a second-term. Hopefully, the Eight Senate will use its unalloyed wisdom to do what is right in the best interest of the Nigerian people and the entire country. “In conclusion, therefore, I use this medium to call on President Buhari and the EFCC chairman to prove that they are interested in really fighting corruption and not only members of the opposition.”