 The presidency has advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to stop intimidating and blackmailing judges. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu in a statement yesterday accused the PDP of sponsoring media smear campaign against the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa.
Garba said the aim of such campaign of blackmail is to cause disaffection between the judiciary and the executive arm of government under President Muhammadu Buhari. The presidential aide denied reports that the Department of State Services (DSS) has indicted Bulkachuwa of corruption. Garba said: ”The DSS doesn’t conduct its duties in the manner so described and you can’t use a fake security report to drag the presidency into a smear campaign against the President of the Court of Appeal. ”If the PDP continues to blackmail and smear judges with fake news stories, we will ultimately find ourselves dealing with a situation where judges may be afraid to handle cases, thereby creating delays in the dispensation of justice,” he added. The presidential spokesman explained that ”while the PDP and its candidates are free to exercise their right to challenge the results of the 2019 presidential election, it is unacceptable to drag the name of the President or other organs of the executive branch into the campaign of character assassination against the President of the Court of Appeal. ”Attacking judges because the outcomes of cases don’t favour you and keeping quiet when the verdict is in your favour smacks of insincerity, double standard and mischief. ”Intimidating and impugning the character of judges in order to force them to bow to blackmail is against the spirit of an independent judiciary. ”The PDP praised the verdict of the Osun Gubernatorial Election Tribunal because it favoured them, but they are now singing a different tune because they lost their appeal. ”We cannot keep changing the definition of an independent judiciary to suit our political convenience and bias without ultimately creating chaos in the system. ”If the presidency had any influence on election petition tribunals, APC candidates wouldn’t have lost a single case before the courts,” he noted.