Police in Ogun State have arrested four suspected cult members for allegedly stabbing a 26-year-old man, Saibu Azeez, at a birthday party. The incident, which occurred on Friday at Abule Lemode area of Ijoko in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area, led to the death of the victim. Two other persons were said to have been injured in the attack and rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. The state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident in a statement yesterday, said the suspects unleashed terror on those at the party with broken bottles.  He identified the arrested suspects as Opeyemi Olalekan, Azeez Ologundudu, Emanuel Omoboriowo and Anigilaje Babatunde. Oyeyemi explained that the cultists invaded the birthday party of Oluwatoye Ogun, who was celebrating at her father’s house. According to him, the suspects stabbed the father of the celebrant on the head before they attacked and stabbed Azeez in the stomach. The police spokesman stated that preliminary investigation revealed that the victim likely belonged to a rival cult group and that the suspects came on a reprisal.  He said: “The arrest followed a distress call received by the police in Agbado Divisional Headquarters that Oluwatoye Ogun, of No 34, Oyedele Close, Abule Lemode was having a birthday party at her father’s house on May 24, 2019 when a group of boys suspected to be cultists stormed the venue of the party about 2a.m. with broken bottles and unleashed terror on the people attending the party.  “The hoodlums stabbed the father of the celebrant on the head before they got hold of Saibu Azeez (26) and stabbed him in his stomach. “Having received the distress call, the DPO Agbado Division, CSP Aloko Amodu, led his patrol team to the scene where four members of the dreaded group were arrested. The two injured persons were taken to the nearby hospital for treatment but Saibu Azeez died while receiving treatment. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased was likely to be a member of a rival cult group and his assailants came on a likely reprisal. The arrested suspects have all confessed being members of a rival cult group. “The corpse of the deceased has been deposited in the morgue for postmortem examination.”   The PPRO said the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, had ordered the transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for discreet investigation. He quoted the commissioner as reiterating his earlier stance against cultism in the state and vowed not to rest until cultism is completely stamped out of the state.