 The Federal Government has launched the Health Facility Registry (HFR) of Nigeria, an electronic information system, which would grant public access to up-to-date information on health facilities as contained in the master facility list. Speaking at the launch, Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, explained that a master health facility list was a complete listing of all health facilities in a country, with information on the signature and service domain elements. He added that the signature domain provides information on the health facility by location and unique identifier, while the service domain elements indicate the kind of services provided by the health facility. According to him, the HFR which was made possible with support from the USAID-funded MEASURE Evaluation and Palladium, would permit each state and the Federal Capital Territory to carry out constant management of the list of health facilities within its jurisdiction while the master facility list would support government determine accurate data on the status and number of health facilities available in the country. Adewole stressed that the data generated from the registry would help in repositioning the nation’s health sector, by providing direction in the development of policies, strategic plans, and funding scheme. “When this system is fully developed, we will be able to know how many healthcare facilities we have, how many of them are actually functional. Building alone is not a hospital; there are buildings across the country with sign post that says specialist hospitals, general hospitals or primary health care centres. It will tell us which centre was functional and even give us the number of people at the facility, the doctors, nurses and pharmacists at a facility for adequate audit,” he said. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has flagged off the pilot scheme of the Basic HealthCare Provision Fund (BHCPF) in four states namely; Osun, Niger, Katsina and Abia States. According to the Minister, Isaac Adewole, the programme was the Federal Government’s direct response to improving health outcomes by addressing high inequalities in access to quality health care and eliminating out of pocket expenses for Primary health care services. He explained that the BHCPF also known as HUWE would provide one primary health care centre, per ward, identified by States based on defined criteria with operational budgets to enable those facilities improve service delivery. In addition, it would reimburse facilities for delivering the specified package of services which includes; Ante-natal care, Delivery including Caesarean Sections, family planning, treatment of under five illnesses, malaria treatment for all, screening for noncommunicable disease and provision for an increased public health emergency response to ensure prompt access to emergency medical treatment for all.
“Services covered under the program, would be delivered in both Public and Private Care Facilities thus ensuring that facilities focused on quality improvement to gain market share. “HUWE will be funded through not less than one per cent of the Consolidated Revenue of the Federation as stipulated in the National Health Act, 2014. It also provides room for funding from Donor Organisations and other sources.”