…says he won’t apologise over comment on defeat of godfathers  Governor Nasir el- Rufai of Kaduna State has declared that he is not aware if the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is the godfather of Lagos State. The governor stated that he owes no one any apology over his comments on how to end godfatherism in Lagos. He spoke with State House Correspondents after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, yesterday. El-Rufai had, last week, while speaking in Ikoyi, Lagos, at an event organised by the Bridge Club, said that political godfather can be defeated in the former nation’s capital. The governor’s comments were seen as a direct attack on the former Lagos State governor who is believed to have a strong influence on politics of the state. Asked to clarify on the comment about godfatherism in Lagos, el-Rufai said: “I made comments in Lagos about how to retire godfathers. It is a template that we have used in Kaduna and it has worked. If anybody thinks he is a godfather, the template may apply to him, but I am not in dispute with anyone. “I don’t know if he (Tinubu) is the godfather of Lagos, it’s up to him to say that.” Speaking further, the Kaduna State governor said he stood by what he said and was not in any dispute with the party leadership. “There is no dispute between me and anyone in the APC. The APC is one family, I don’t dispute with my own party. They may dispute with me, but I don’t. “I expressed my views firmly and very clearly. There is no human being that I am afraid to express my views on, and when I am ready to express my views, specifically on a particular name, then I will do so but I haven’t.” Asked specifically if he wants Tinubu retired as godfather of Lagos politics, the governor said he was in the same party with the former governor and they got along very well. “What I know for sure is that we have retired godfathers in Kaduna and I have told those that asked me the question that ‘there are six million registered voters in Lagos, but only one million voted,’ in the last election. So, there are five million people that you can bring into the electoral playground and you can defeat anyone if you work hard. “It’s hard work, it’s four years. That is what I said and if anyone feels offended by that, that is his business or her business. “I have no apologies, I don’t apologise for my views. My views are thought out and I put them there. I don’t have to explain anything to anyone. This is a democracy. And in a democratic space, there must be room for people to express their views.” El-Rufai said he came to the Villa to brief the President on the general security situation in Kaduna. The governor dismissed the assertion by the Nigerian Senate that the Abuja- Kaduna highway is the most dangerous road in the country, saying that the road is now safe for travellers. T he Senate had on May 8 described the Abuja- Kaduna highway as the most dangerous road in Africa due to the activities of kidnappers and armed bandits operating on the expressway. However, El-Rufai said: “If you believe everything that comes out of the Nigeria’s Senate you will have serious mental health problems. “There are things that are said there that are just for the gallery, for the media. I don’t know what statistics that were used to determine that the Abuja-Kaduna road is the most dangerous road anywhere – I like fact; I like using figures, I wish the people that said that would produce figures. “I’m saying that no matter what anybody said last week, I’m assuring Nigerians that the Abuja–Kaduna road is quite safe now and will be so following the measures put in place by the various security agencies.” The governor, who said that he was not assuring absolute safety for travellers plying the road, maintained that only God can guarantee total safety. Speaking at an event organised by the Bridge Club in Ikoyi, Lagos State, the governor said he knows how to end godfatherism in Lagos State. Responding to a question from a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and three-time commissioner in Lagos State, Dr. Muiz Banire, on how to deal with godfatherism since it was one of the drawbacks for professionals and businessmen who might want to go into politics, the Kaduna governor said it can be defeated through strategic planning. El-Rufai said: “Godfatherism. This is Lagos. Let me tell you something sir; you know, Kaduna State used to be like that. There were three or four politicians in Kaduna that you could not become anything unless you had them on your side. Those were the godfathers of Kaduna politics and you had to carry them along and you know, the three words, ‘carry them along’ mean paying them regularly. “But we chose a different path and the long and short of it now is that after this election in 2019, we have retired all of them; we had to.”The governor added that the fact that only one million out of the six million registered voters in Lagos voted in the 2019 general election was an opportunity to end godfatherism in the state. He added: “Here in Lagos, you have over six million registered voters, only about a million voted in the 2019 general election; five million did not vote. If I want to run for governor of Lagos, I will start now. I will commission a study to know why those five million registered voters did not vote; where do they go on election day? Then I will start visiting them for the next four years. I will try and get just two million of them to come and vote for me; I will defeat any godfather. The key is to go to the people. “The card reader and the biometric register have given us the tools to connect directly with the people. I assure you if you do that for the next four years, connecting with the people; the tin godfather, you will retire him or her permanently. But it is hard work; it requires three to four years of hard work. So, if you want to run in 2023, you should start now.” El-Rufai said it would require about N2 billion to do the job, which he said the businessmen could provide. “With about N2 billion; if you start, you see these guys with black ties, they will give you the N2 billion. Many of the godfathers are either on paper or in the mind of people in politics. They are defeatable. We retired four of them in Kaduna State within a four-year term and they are gone. One of them boasted that he put me in the government house and he would take me out.”