The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has placed shares of First Aluminium Nigeria Plc In suspension ahead of voluntary delisting of the entire issued share capital of the company from the Daily Official List of the Exchange. The management of NSE in a notice to the investment community, explained, “in preparation for the voluntary delisting of the issued share capital of First Aluminium, Apel Asset Limited on behalf of First Aluminium has requested that the issued share capital of the company be placed on suspension. In view of the above, the shares of the company were placed on suspension effective, Wednesday, 15 May 2019”.
First Aluminium recently issued explanatory statement on its proposed delisting from the main board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The explanatory statement is pursuant to the resolution of the board of directors duly passed at the meeting of the directors of the company which held on 8 August 2018. The board of directors approved and resolved to recommend to the shareholders of the Company the delisting of all the ordinary issued share capital of the Company, 2,110,359,242 units from the Daily Official List and from trading on the Main Board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. According to the statement, the delisting will afford the company to carry-out an imminent Corporate Restructuring exercise to take advantage of emerging opportunities and may consider re-listing the company in the future if the market conditions are favourable. “The Voluntary Delisting will not occasion loss of business opportunities as there are similar unlisted Aluminium Companies who are commanding significant share of the Aluminium market,”the firm explained. “Also, minority shareholders will not lose their shares because of the Voluntary Delisting and such shareholders may retain their membership in the unlisted Company. However, through the Voluntary Delisting process, the minority shareholders – who do not wish to be members of an unlisted company – will have an opportunity to exit the Company, in accordance with the rules of the Nigerian Stock Exchange.
“The shareholders of the Company at its annual general meeting, which held on 25 September 2018 approved the proposal for voluntarily Delisting via a poll vote supported by 99.87% of members present and voting.
“The Voluntary Delisting will thus become effective upon the obtainment of the written approval of the Nigerian Stock Exchange.”