Following the Presidential directive on the immediate clearance of the Apapa gridlock and the restoration of law and order to Apapa environment within two weeks, stakeholders have said that the order would restore the old glory of the port city. They also said that it would reduce the cost of moving containers out of the port, which has gone up by 700 per cent within Lagos. However, they said that the directive should be sustained in order to bring back businesses to the port community. Chairman (Dry Cargo sector) National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), Abdullahi Mohammed Inuwa, said the new order was a welcome development. He advised government to implement the directive fully to enable both trucks and other vehicles access the port freely. Mohammed said call up permit should be used from the trucks parks to access the ports in orderly manner. He said: “Our prayer is for the authorities concerned to be focused and do the needful. We also urge the Federal Government to monitor the activities of the shipping companies and the terminal operators which own about 90 per cent of the trucks on the roads leading to the ports. “Our drivers will be liberated from intimidations and harassment. They will sleep well and have their bath if they are in the garages.” He explained that if the directive should be implemented, importers andtruckers would be saved from shipping lines who collude with terminal operators to gain more profits on demurrage. Also, the Managing Director of Sceptre Consult, Mr. Jayeola Olatunde, a cargo consolidator, said that the new directive would reduce the cost of doing business on the road. He added that an average of four hours lost to gridlock on the road by the port users would also vanish. Also, Olatunde explained that those who have abandoned their properties at Apapa would return to their homes, saying that a lot of businesses which have closed down would be resuscitated. He noted: “This is a welcome development to some of us working in Apapa; because to go to Apapa for business has become a nightmare. After the clearance, government should sustain it and there should be a standing task force on the road in order to bring sanity to the port community.” Managing Director of Oktopo Logistics Limited, Mr. Samuel Elem, said that the new directive was a welcome idea, saying that it would reduce the huge hours lost to gridlock on the road. Elem said that the cost of moving containers from Lagos and Tincan ports had gone up by 700 per cent. However, he said that this was not the first time such a directive would be given without concrete result. He said that full implementation and space to keep the trucks would continue to be the main challenges. The customs agent explained that the available space had been converted to tank farms along the Apapa– Oshodi express ways.