To further deepen insurance education and awareness in Nigeria, Universal Insurance Plc, has donated insurance books worth over N2 million to Institute of Management Technology (IMT) at Enugu, Enugu State.
The ceremony, which was performed at the weekend, attracted the top echelon of the institute including the Rector, Prof Austin Nweze. Speaking at the event, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the underwriting firm, Mr. Ben Ujoatuonu, said that the gesture was part of commitment in ensuring insurance education in the environ.
He said as a socially responsible corporate citizen, the company had deemed it necessary to support insurance education across the country. For him, insurance as a career means much for the volatile economy of Nigeria and the only way to shift the paradigm is to educate the young minds on the need to embrace insurance as a course of study which in turn would impact positively on the economy through practice.
“We are here today to tell you that insurance is a career and in deed a social tool capable of lifting the country’s economy from the web of collapse if it is given a rightful place and conducive environment. “Insurance plays significant role in the economy and as a catalyst for it growth you the young minds do have a lot to know about it as a course of study and in practice a way to contributing to the economic stability. “This donation is a token of our contribution to the knowledge base of this wonderful institution which of course, is my Alma Mata. The books are of various areas of insurance that would boost your knowledge base as students of insurance,” Ujoatuonu said. Responding, the institute’s rector, Prof Nweze thanked Universal Insurance Plc for its kind gesture and promised to encourage student in the department to take advantage of the various literature donated by the company not just in meeting their academic needs but also to aspire to become someone like Mr Ujoatuonu in their career path.
He advised the students to be steadfast and go outside the box in seeking academic and career excellence in insurance space.