 Outgoing Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday thanked Lagosians for giving him an opportunity to govern the state, saying that some of his policies may have been unpopular but decisions were taken with the best interest of the state in mind. Ambode, in a farewell State broadcast to officially mark the end of his administration, insisted that all decisions, plans, programmes and policies of his administration in the last four years were taken with the best interest of Lagos in mind and for common good of all residents of the State.
According to the outgone governor, the driving force with respect to programmes executed was to lift more people out of poverty and make every part of the State economically viable and livable. For this administration, policies, programmes and projects aimed at lifting more of our people out of poverty and making every part of the State safe, accessible and economically viable were always the priority; the driving force behind all our decisions and plans. He said: “A few of our policies might have been unpopular but these were decisions taken with the best interest of our State in mind. With the benefit of hindsight, maybe we could have done some things differently but our intention was always clear, for the good of Lagos. “With a heart full of gratitude, I address you today for the last time as your governor. It has been a honour and a privilege of a lifetime to serve you for the last four years. “It has been a remarkable journey which has had a lasting impact in my life and I want to thank all Lagosians for the experience of these last four years. “As in the beginning when we visited every single corner of this state listening to you and asking for your votes, I have felt the power of your support, your collective energy and the endless goodwill that has propelled us to achieve many things. “From being just a commercial centre, our State has now become a prime destination for tourism, sports, entertainment and culture. And the future is even brighter with more exciting prospects and possibilities. In the near future, with God on our side, Lagos will take its rightful place in the comity of major city-States of the world. “Fellow Lagosians, it has been a remarkable journey one in which we have pushed boundaries and moved our State to another level; a journey in which we have transformed many aspects of our State and set the ball rolling in other sectors. But there is still a lot more to be done. “But it is a job not for only the government; it is a responsibility for us all. In Lagos everyone counts and we all have a part to play.”