A 44-year-old man, Adewunmi Bailey, who allegedly defrauded another man of N2.3 million, on Thursday appeared in an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court in Lagos. He was, however, released on bail in the sum N300, 000. Charged on two counts of obtaining money under false pretences and stealing, Bailey who resides at No 9, Adekunle Bailey St., Alakuko, Lagos, however, pleaded not guilty. The prosecutor, Insp. Lucky Ihiehie, said that the defendant committed the offences on March 29 at Ogudu in Ojota area of Lagos. Ihiehie said that the defendant collected N2, 350, 000 from the complainant, Mr Ajibola Basiriyu, with a promise to clear his building site with a swamp buggy machine but failed to do so. “The defendant refused to fulfill his own part of the agreement; instead, he converted the money to personal use,” the prosecutor said. The alleged offences contravene Sections 287 and 314 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The Magistrate, Mrs Bukola Mogaji, who granted the defendant bail, also asked him to produce two sureties in like sum. Mogaji said the sureties should be gainfully employed and have proofs of tax payment to the Lagos State Government. The case was adjourned until May 5. (NAN) 48-year-old Ademola Oresanya, on Thursday appeared in court, for allegedly defrauding Mrs Iyabo Adedire, of N931, 000, under the guise of getting her a Certificate of Ownership (C of O). Oresanya, whose address was not provided, is facing a two-count charge of obtaining by false pretence and stealing before an… In “Metro and Crime” A 32- year-old businessman, James Iheagwu, is standing trial before an Ogudu Magistrates’ Court, for allegedly defrauding a micro finance bank of N1 million. The defendant, whose address was not provided, is facing charges bordering on obtaining money under false pretext, stealing and issuing dud cheque. The prosecutor, Lucky Ihiehie,… In “Metro and Crime” The police on Tuesday arraigned a 26-year-old man, Afeez Adekanmbi, in an Ogudu Magistrate’s Court for allegedly stealing two cell phones valued at N40,000. Adekanmbi, a resident of Ajibola Street, Alapere, pleaded not guilty to a charge of stealing. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Insp. Lucky Ihiehie, had told the court that… In “Metro and Crime”