Four months after her arrest and detention over alleged drug trafficking, the government of Saudi Arabia has released Miss Zainab Aliyu. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mustapha Sulaiman, confirmed Zainab’s release yesterday in a statement. Zainab, a student of Maitama Sule University, Kano, was arrested by Saudi Arabia Police on December 26, shortly after arriving for Lesser Hajj. Zainab, who had travelled in company with her mother, Mrs. Maryam Aliyu, and sister, Hajara Aliyu, was arrested over allegations that one of her luggage tagged in her name, contained the unlawful substance. Dissatisfied with the development, her father, Mr Habib Aliyu, had petitioned the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), leading to the arrest of some officials of the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano.  According to a report of the investigation activities signed by the NDLEA Chairman and Chief Executive, Col. Muhammad Abdallah (rtd), a suspected syndicate in the airport had imposed the tramadol-bearing luggage on Zainab. However, addressing journalists in Abuja, Sulaiman said Zainab had been released to the Nigerian Mission in Saudi Arabia.  The permanent secretary also gave indication of possible release of another Nigerian, Ibrahim Abubakar, who was also arrested for similar alleged offences. He said: “I am pleased to inform you that a few minutes ago the girl and the gentleman have been released.  “I am happy to announce to you that in the last couple of minutes Zainab is with our Mission in Saudi and we believe that the other gentleman would be released before tomorrow. “Because by the time they were able to get his file it was a closing hour and before they got to his location where he is being kept, it was already late.” According to him, the release followed intense diplomatic engagements between the two governments.  He added: “We piled up pressure of interventions and there have been discussions at various levels between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Saudi authorities. “In addition to that, our ministry, in conjunction with the Mission in Saudi, has been able to bring to the attention of Saudi the level of innocence of these people. “We have engaged in other diplomatic ways, we have written several notes, we have also from here sent the same notes to the Saudi Embassy here and the Consulate in Kano.   “We have several interventions and various discussions between the minister of Foreign Affairs and Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) on this same issue “We have passed documents relating to the trial of the suspects that were arrested in Kano. We have also passed same information of the judicial process.”  As part of measures aimed at securing Zainab’s freedom, President Muhammadu Buhari had directed the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, to take up the case. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Diaspora Matters, Mrs. Abike Dabiri- Erewa, had made the disclosure in a statement by her media aide, Mr. Abdur-Rahman Balogun, on Monday in Abuja. Meanwhile many Nigerians have commended the Federal Government for securing the release of Zainab. Reacting to the release, Gloria Iraboh, a  journalist, commended the Federal Government for the release, and decried the horrible way Nigerians were being treated abroad.  She said: “I think the problem is that the corruption level of this country is just too high and it affects the image of Nigerians abroad. “Nigerians are maltreated, imprisoned and even killed in many countries, it is not acceptable. “I strongly believe that those arrested should be brought to book to serve as deterrent to others.’’ Rahamatu Aminu, a student, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), also expressed delight that Zainab had been released. Aminu, however, said she was disappointed at the way Nigerians were being treated in other countries.  She said: “These drug peddlers should be dealt with and made to pay for their crimes because they are tarnishing the image of the country.” A businessman, Mr Jide Ajayi, said: “I think this girl’s case is an eye opener to all to be very careful at our airports.”  Earlier yesterday, the Saudi Arabian Consulate Office in Kano shunned hundreds of students of Maitama Sule University, protesting Zainab’s detention. The students, who marched through the State Road to the Consul General Office, carried placards with various inscriptions such as: “Free Zainab Habib; she is innocent,” “The drug was planted as confirmed by NDLEA.”