…in two years  The Federal Government lost N4.6 trillion in revenue to waivers, import duty exemptions between 2017 and 2018, Minister of Finance, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, has said. Special Assistant to the Minister, Paul Ella Abechi, disclosed this in a statement made available to New Telegraph in Abuja yesterday.To block the leakage, the Minister, according to the statement, has secured Certificate of Full Business Case Certificate of Compliance for the Import Duty Exemption Certificate (IDEC) project from the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) last Tuesday in Abuja. The certificate of compliance was presented to the minister by the Director- General/CEO of ICRC, Engr Chidi Izuwah (Snr). Ahmed, according to the statement, commended the DG of ICRC for expediting action on the project. “It’s really a good time for me that this project that I was really particular about since I came on board is coming to fruition,” the minister said. While calling for full implementation of the project, Ahmed said her ministry would secure Federal Executive Council’s approval before Public Private Partnership (PPP) aspect of the project commences. She urged the ministry to take advantage of the IDEC portal and put it into full use to enable the Federal Government get full value for its revenues. The Minister lamented that government had, before now, lost significant revenues due to the inability to adequately control the IDEC processes. “The portal will help us control,” she said. “It will help us to be able to track and monitor the IDEC that we issue, but also to monitor the performance of the companies that we give this IDEC to and we will also be able to interface the IDEC system with the Nigeria Customs Service.” The certificate presented to the Minister reads in part, “Full business case compliance certificate for the development, deployment and management of automated Customs Gateway Portal for Import Duty Exemption Certificate. “The Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) has reviewed the response by the Federal Ministry of Finance to the Conditional Outline/ Full Business Case Compliance Certificate granted by the Commission on 12th June, 2018, for the Development, Deployment and Management of Automated Customs Gateway Portal for Import Duty Exemption Certificates, under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement with Forecore Technology Solution Limited, as the preferred partner to Develop, Deploy, Manage and Transfer for a 10-year concession period.” Earlier, in his opening remark, the Director-General of ICRC, Engr Izuwah, noted that IDEC project is a very laudable one, which is considered as a great and urgent importance to enable the country cut the huge revenue losses to the tune of over N2 trillion due to manual processes. He said the statement in the minister’s letter that the non-implementation of this project caused a revenue loss of N2.5 trillion in 2017 and N2.1 trillion in 2018, is considered as a national revenue emergency and “we gave it the needed attention and turned it around very quickly.” Izuwah noted that the Federal Ministry of Finance, under Section 12 of the ICRC Act, is required to diligently supervise this project and ensure that government realises full value, the interest of government protected and it reap the full benefits of the project. He added that on the other hand, the ICRC under Section 10 of its act is required to collaborate with the Federal Ministry of Finance and regularly inspect the project and ensure compliance that both the public and the private are doing what they have covenanted. He also appealed to the Minister to help the Commission and the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA) finalise on its discussion concerning the Special Concession Account, which according to him, will be a huge opportunity to increase the revenue that is available to the government and block leakages. The Minister, in her response, according to the statement, promised to meet with the Permanent Secretary, Special Duties and the Accountant General of the Federation “to make sure that the account is not only put in place, but put to full use.” While giving the vote of thanks, the Permanent Secretary, Special Duties in the Ministry of Finance, Dr M.K. Dikwa, congratulated the Minister for pursuing vigorously to ensure that that the certificate is issued in her tenure. He noted that the whole process, which started in 2008, has attained a landmark feat under her leadership in 2019. Dikwa urged the directors and staff of the Ministry of Finance “to take full advantage of the portal to ensure that every leakage as far as the revenues in this direction is blocked.”