…targets U.S, Europe, China  N3.5trn spent in 3 years  Rewane forecloses recession   The Federal Government is currently in search of investors and financiers to fund infrastructure projects valued at $140 billion, New Telegraph has learnt. While details of the specific projects to spend the money on have not been released, the government said the finance is targeted at bridging existing infrastructure gaps in the country and would be spread over the next four to five years.
The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelamah, who disclosed this yesterday during the opening ceremony of the maiden USA Fair 2019 in Lagos, said the government is determined to bequeath Nigeria with adequate infrastructure that would  make businesses thrive to improve their contributions to the economy. According to him, this determination had seen the government spend over N3.5 trillion on infrastructure in the last three years, but that was not anywhere near enough. “We have realised that there is need for more investments to cover the infrastructure deficit in the country. We are trying to figure out how to raise $140 billion to achieve this over the next four to five years. This is something the government is taking a very hard look at and we are thinking of how to partner with great countries like America as well as other nations and businesses around the world,” the minister said. Enelamah noted that while the United States has been a strategic partner of Nigeria, the country would also consider options from European countries, China and the Middle East to achieve her target. “I do tell people that Nigeria does not have the luxury of dealing with just one country. As great as America is, we want to partner with them at the level of our needs that they can meet; we also want to partner with Europe, China, Middle East and other countries of the world. We want to be a good partner to all to survive the challenging time that the world economy is currently going through,” he said. Addressing the team of American companies who had come to the country to explore business opportunities through the USA Fair, an initiative of the U.S. Government, Enelamah expressed concern that many investment promises by foreign investors over the years have not come to reality.
He noted that in 2018, over $90 billion worth of investments were announced by entities who wanted to do business in Nigeria, and they are still being expected.
“The question is what do we do to convert those promises to real investments? We currently have about $20 billion investments which we are working to close and that is from many years. There has also been a growing and steady rise in investor confidence, but again, this investor confidence must be converted into real investments. I would like you to tell us what it takes to do business with you and we will be ready to work with you,” he said.
Meanwhile, the Managing Director, Financial Derivatives, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, has allayed the fear that Nigeria’s economy might fall back into recession, saying the momentum is on growth trajectory. Also speaking at the USA Fair on ‘Forecast and Recommendations for the Nigerian Economy in Buhari’s Second Term’, Rewane noted that Nigeria’s GDP at $482 billion, growth rate at two per cent, and population at 190 million are indicators of an economy on a path of growth.
He observed that the real estate sector, which had suffered consecutive decline in previous quarters, grew in the GDP report of Q1, 2019; indicating that the economy would continue to expand. Rewane said the drivers of superior economic performance for the economy are good leadership, effective policy framework and strong institutions.
He, however, advised that the government must implement a power sector reform, which should include the conversion of the N1 trillion power sector debts into equity and adopt a cost-reflective tariff to deepen economic growth. He also urged the government to invest in new pipelines; stop financial waivers and exemptions; list NNPC on the stock market; reduce petrol subsidy in 2019 and scrap in 2020, and change the foreign exchange market structure.
He noted that the economy had fiscal challenges of growth, revenue, debt and policy inconsistency that had hampered development. Rewane said that using monetary policy to solve fiscal problems would be ineffective, adding that between 2019 and 2023, there would be strong fiscal presence backed by complementary monetary measures to drive growth.
In her presentation at the event, the CEO of Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC), Ms Yewande Sadiku, said that the government was working on improving the country’s business environment toward attracting more investment.