Enugu State is noted in the South-East and the country as a very peaceful state with a low crime rate. But since March this year, many are wondering what has happened to the state, following a sequence of unresolved murders. KENNETH OFOMA, in Enugu, reports  In modern times, the Ides of March is best known as the date on which Julius Caesar (13 July 100 BC – 15 March 44 BC), was assassinated in 44 BC. This tragedy was famously dramatised in William Shakespeare’s play Julius Caesar, when Caesar is warned by the soothsayer to “beware the Ides of March.”  Caesar was a Roman politician, military general, and historian who played a critical role in the events that led to the demise of the Roman Republic and the rise of the Roman Empire. Caesar was killed in the month of March. Similarly in Enugu, the month of March 2019 came to represent a tragic month of death and blood. It was the month that witnessed three gruesome murders and one homicide (girl raped to death) that shook the entire Coal City state. First was the assassination of Rev Fr. Clement Ugwu. It was followed by the assassination of Local Government Secretary and University lecturer, Dr. Nnamdi Ogueche by suspected herdsmen.  And the third was the assassination of the Head of Nursing of Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital (FNH), Enugu, Dr. (Mrs) Maria Amadi. Fourthly, one Ms Ngozi Eze, in Imfu community in Enugu Ezike, Igboeze North Local Government Area of the state was raped to death by a group of boys.  The fifth assassination was that of popular Enugu Prophet, Mr. Anthony Nwoko, but it took place in the month of April. His body was discovered in his room on April 16, 2019. Fr Ugwu was kidnapped on Wednesday March 13, 2019, around 9:00 pm by gunmen after they had shot him in his church premises; St Mark Catholic Church, Obinofia Ndiuno in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State. His decomposing body was found in a bush a week after he was kidnapped.  His remains was committed to mother earth immediately at the priest’s burial ground at the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu. At the funeral service, a very disappointed Catholic Bishop of the Enugu Diocese, Most Rev. Dr. Callistus Onaga, recalled how he personally visited the police in Enugu three times, asking for urgent action to rescue the cleric, only for them to keep on telling him that they were “on top of the situation, and were closing in on the kidnappers.”  But it was not even the police that recovered the body but the locals. “So far, the police in Enugu have woefully failed to either round up his suspected killers or come up with concrete efforts geared towards arresting such situations,” the aggrieved Bishop said. He regretted that security agencies could not rescue Fr. Ugwu despite their assurances that they were closing on the kidnappers, while the abductors were making withdrawals from his account through his Automated Teller Machine Card. Bishop Onaga, who spoke in an emotion laden voice, said: “All is not well in Enugu State. We should not continue to pretend about it while our people are killed every day.  Enugu State is not secured again. Criminals have shifted to Enugu State from Anambra while we said that Enugu is most secured.” Almost at the same period the late priest was abducted, the secretary of Uzo-Uwani council area of the state, Dr. Nnamdi Ogueche, was also kidnapped and murdered by yet-to-be identified gunmen.  Until his death, the council scribe was also a lecturer at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. The father of three was reportedly murdered on March 20, at about 5pm by suspected herdsmen between Olo in Ezeagu Local Government Area and Umulokpa in Uzo-Uwani LGA.  He was on his way back to Enugu, after attending a peace meeting. Similarly, a young girl, identified as Ngozi Eze, in Imfu community in Enugu Ezike , Igboeze North Local Government Area of the state, who had gone for her UTME lesson was abducted and taken to a bush by unknown persons who raped her to death just about the same period. Her lifeless body was discovered after the father; Mr. Jonathan Eze, raised an alarm that his daughter was missing.  Then came the murder of Head of Nursing Services (HNS) at Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital Enugu, Mrs Mary Amadi, in cold blood on March 21. Those familiar with the in-fighting within the hospital had severally warned that if not resolved permanently, the crisis might end in disaster and also continue to impact negatively on the growth and service delivery in the federal health institution.  The hospital had severally been embroiled in labour unrest, series of allegations of graft, in-fighting, academic and NYSC discharge certificates forgery, and highhandedness among some senior staff. The deceased was reportedly shot dead at about 4pm in front of her house at Federal Housing estate near NOWAS, Enugu.  She had reportedly closed from work and headed home. As if she had a premonition of the impending doom, she reportedly had a detour to St. Leo’s Catholic Church near her house to pray. The assailants, who were probably trialing her from the office, on seeing her branch to the church, moved on and waited for her at the front of her residence.  The Director of Nursing Services, unaware of the danger lurking ahead, drove straight home after the church prayers, and was said to have even greeted the strangers at the gate of the entrance to her house.  She was about to open the gates when she was shot by her assailants who made a U-turn and sped off. Amadi did not die instantly. She was said to have been rushed to Parklane Hospital, where doctors battled unsuccessfully to save her life. But on their way to the hospital, she reportedly told those carrying her to first take her to police station, which they did.  And some senior police officers, including the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), joined the vehicle to the hospital. She was said to have named some people working in the hospital for masterminding the gun attack on her. Following her eventual death, police quickly arrested those named by the dying woman as suspects.  While the dust raised by these gruesome murders was yet to settle, the state was thrown into another shock on April 16, as a popular Enugu Prophet, Mr. Anthony Nwoko, who hails from Umuahia, Abia State, was assassinated by unknown persons at his apartment in Enugu.  The secretary of Rangers Inter. FC of Enugu, Barrister Ferdinand Emeka, escaped death by the whiskers, penultimate week, when gunmen invaded his apartment in Enugu, carting away his car. But he was lucky to have escaped with his life. The recent killings have agitated the minds of well-meaning residents of Enugu. They wonder what has gone wrong with the Coal City state known for low crime and criminality overnight.  There is no doubt that the state government under Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has done everything humanly possible to keep criminals out of the city. Enugu is the spiritual and political capital; and indeed, home for every who’s who in Igbo land. Hence, every government has always tried to maintain peace and keep Enugu safe for residents and visitors alike.  The administration of Ugwuanyi had in the last three and half years, equipped the police, Army, Air force Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC, among others with operational patrol vehicles and security gadgets, so as to enable them perform optimally.  The immediate past Nigeria’s Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Idris Ibrahim, had during a visit to the governor before his retirement, described Enugu as “a very peaceful and friendly state, not only to the police but also to all laws abiding citizens”, and solicited further support of the state government to the Enugu command to enable it discharge its responsibilities effectively.  The ex-police boss, who spoke through the Deputy Inspector- General of Police in-charge of the South-Eastern region, Mr. Valentine Ntomchukwu, added that Enugu State could be regarded as one of the safest and peaceful states in Nigeria. Ugwuanyi had in his response stated that security was central to the stability, growth and development of the society, stressing that “without it, engagement in meaningful social, political and economic activities, will be virtually impossible.”  According to the governor, Enugu State was regarded as one of the safest and peaceful states in Nigeria and that was as a result of the strategic and exemplary partnership that the state government has maintained with security agencies in the state as well as other initiatives designed to involve the citizenry in security efforts.  “It is certainly in our interest that this happy state of affairs is sustained and that crime and criminality are reduced to the barest minimum in Enugu State.” Former Commissioner of police in the state, Mr. Danmallam Mohammed, had earlier taken delivery of 22 brand new patrol vans donated to the Enugu State Police Command by the state government to enhance their security operations. He had remarked that the “huge support” from Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration has “resulted in total tranquility” being witnessed in the state.  However, with the recent turn of events with worsening security challenges, many residents of the state, like the Catholic Bishop, Onaga, are beginning to question the role of the police in the whole saga. Many tend to believe that residents of Enugu no longer sleep with two of their eyes closed as a result of the resurgence of alarming crime rate in the state, especially the metropolis.  However, the most disturbing aspect of the development is that up till now, the police have not been able to bring many of the suspects to book.  Going by the recent reoccurring sad and unfortunate happenings in the state, concerned residents suggest urgent need for the governor to seriously engage the security chiefs in the state, including the Police, DSS, Army, Civil Defence and the Airforce for possible overhaul of their strategy.