The Lagos State House of Assembly yesterday resolved to wade into the crisis rocking the State Polytechnic over the disagreement between the management and staff of the institution. The Majority Leader, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade who moved the motion which was seconded by Hon. Adedamola Kasunmu, stated that the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) had been embroiled in crisis which had paralyzed academic activities in the institution. Speaking during plenary, Agunbiade said, “I wish to present to this House the crisis in the only polytechnic in the state which is within my constituency. The lawmaker, representing Ikorodu Constituency I, explained that the issue had remained unresolved for the past five months, adding “it now degenerates to assault resulting to arrest where staff take laws into their hands.”
He recalled that a similar crisis came up in Lagos State University (LASU) in the past which the House was able to intervene and got resolved.  While giving credence to the Majority Leader’s submission, the Chairman House committee on Education, Hon. Lanre Ogunyemi disclosed that his committee had initiated a move to resolve the issue but it failed. He explained that the state government took the Union to the Industrial Court but the issue remained unresolved as the court gave a ruling for the status quo to remain. In his comments, Chairman of the House Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights, Public Petitions and LASIEC, Hon. Tunde Braimoh stated that his committee had received two petitions over the crisis. According to him, the Union alleged that the school management used executive fiat to arrest its members and that students who have already graduated couldn’t obtain their certificates due to the crisis. In his ruling, the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa directed the House committees on Education and Judiciary to work together on the need to resolve the crisis and report back in two weeks. Meanwhile, four Bills scaled through second readings and forwarded to their relevant committees who are expected to report to the House within one week.  The Bills are Lagos State Public Finance Management, 2011, Urban and Regional Planning Amendment Bill, 2018, Lagos State Employment Bill, 2018 and Electric Power Sector Reform Bill, 2018.