The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential candidate and former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, has faulted the comment credited to the Minister of Transportation, Hon. Chibuike Amaechi on the 2023 presidency, declaring that the former Rivers State governor lacks the political relevance to make such comment.
Obi said that even in Rivers State, Amaechi lacks political relevance and wondered why the minister who is not from South-East would want to speak for the zone.
Speaking to journalists after a lecture and book presentation in honour of Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike in Port Harcourt, Obi said that South-East All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in PDP contributed to the party’s success in the last elections.
Obi, who was flanked by Senator Uche Ekwunife and Senator-elect, Sandy Onoh, said: “Amaechi is not from the South-East, so he cannot speak for us. He is not in any position to make such statements because even him that is in APC, he did not contribute anything to the success of that election.
“He did not even achieve anything in his own state. Those of us from the South-East who are from the PDP contributed to the success of our party. For example, PDP in my state got 95 per cent. They (APC) didn’t even get 25 per cent in Rivers State. So he is not competent to speak on the Presidency in 2023.”
On the second term inauguration of Governor Wike, Obi said the Rivers State governor has performed exceptionally well, as evidenced by his numerous projects.
“What is happening in Rivers State is that every area has seen very visible improvement. He has done very well. The lecture and book presentation elucidated the performance of the Rivers State Governor,” he said.
On the growing insecurity in the country, Obi said the only way to achieve peace is for the Muhammadu Buhari administration to unite the people and tackle insecurity headlong.
“Everybody has to be involved. The President has to work with the governors and the governors should work with the local government councils. We are Nigerians. We have no other country, so everyone must be involved,” he said.
The PDP vice presidential candidate said that the major way to end insecurity is to create jobs for the teeming unemployed youths, just as he said that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should be made to be independent, so that they can work without favouring any group.
“As long as the youths remain unemployed, we have a crisis,” Obi said.