More facts yesterday emerged on how a man, Charles Enifeh Akupa Omomo (42) his wife, Faith Omomo (38), and his six-year-old boy, Glorious Omomo, at the Igbogbo area of Ikorodu, Lagos State, over the paternity of Glorious.
Charles also committed suicide. The incident was said to have occurred on Friday at Number 7, Obafemi Eruja Street, Igbogbo, Ikorodu. It was learnt that for long Charles and Faith had been having issue over the paternity of the boy. Neighbours said that recently, Glorious’ alleged biological father, Mr. Kunle Salami, called Faith, demanding that she returned his son to him. The woman didn’t know that Charles overheard the phone conversation.
Charles, however, confronted Faith with the allegation that Glorious was not his biological child, but the woman promptly denied it. Salami, who claimed to be Glorious’ father, later called Charles a week before the murder and suicide, to inform him that he was the biological father of Glorious. Salami told Charles in the same breathe that he was coming to collect his son.
The discovery allegedly angered Charles, causing a cold war between him and Faith. Family members intervened to bring peace into the stormy home, but all efforts failed. One of the residents where the incident occurred, who wished to remain anonymous, said: “On the fateful day of the incident, the couple was outside their apartment with other tenants and their children, relaxing. It was nightfall. “After a while, everyone went into their apartments. A few minutes after they went in, they started shouting and quarrelling. The little boy started crying. I went to knock at their door, but they refused to open. After a while, I didn’t hear their voices anymore. Other tenants and I went into our apartments. I was preparing to go out the following day, when Charles’ first child, Success, and second daughter, Favour, rushed out crying, saying that their parents and little brother were dead.” Another resident, who gave his name as Adebayo, said: “It was after the man had killed his wife and the little boy, that he hanged himself on the ceiling fan. When some other tenants and I went to check the wife and the boy, they were covered with bed sheet on the bed. There was a sign on their necks, which showed that they were both strangled. It was an unfortunate incident. “We couldn’t touch their remains. We had to inform the Lagos State Accident and Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), who later evacuated bodies of the wife and boy. It was after Oro worshipers performed the necessary rituals that the man was brought down from the ceiling fan. “Charles was somebody who didn’t like courting trouble. He was a commercial motorcycle rider. But since December, he stopped riding. It was the little money the wife made from her petty trade that the family depended on. Even the first and second children were no longer going to school. They were always indoors with their father.” The landlady of the house, where Charles and his family resided, said that what happened between the couple was a misunderstanding, which could have been resolved amicably. She said she was shocked at how it degenerated to the level of suicide and murder. The landlady said: “When I heard about the issue of the paternity of the boy, I called both husband and wife and settled it. I urged them to continue with their lives. I was surprised when I heard that the man, who claimed to be the father of the boy, was disturbing Charles that the boy belonged to him.
“I don’t understand why a woman would be sleeping with another man outside her matrimonial home, just because her husband was not financially buoyant. It’s so bad that she brought another man’s pregnancy to the house and gave it to her husband. We women are wicked.”
Since the incident occurred, other tenants had vacated the house for fear of being arrested by the police. The remains of the victims had been deposited at Ikorodu General Hospital Mortuary.