Ulugbekhon Maksumov of Uzbekistan descent; is an entrepreneur, born in Margilan, Uzbekistan. He is the Founder/CEO of “Inkas Vehicle LLC”, his first experience with automobiles manufacturing was in 2002/2003 with “GM Korea Company” an as a supply chain manager. Early 2006 He moved to Dubai for a fresh start, why working with other brands in Dubai. He started up his first brand “Gulf Auto Trading FZE” which was just one stop shop for vehicles needs till 2012 when he established “Inkas Vehicle LLC” which carried out production tools for manufacturing vehicles in and outside UAE. Inkas is one of Dubai largest and leading automobiles companies that have proving to be the best, tested by United Nation over the years. Having such a brand lunch in Nigeria is a big step not only for the company but for the nation Nigeria towards fighting terrorism. Providing the military with high-quality vehicles to enable them move freely. Who are the major key people for Inkas Vehicle LLC aside you? Anastasia Romanenko (Chief Financial Officer), Mykhaylo Semiletkin (Production Manager), John Szabo (Business Development Manager), Wasim Kaisar (Sales Manager), Jaouad Makhlof (Logistics Manager), Julia Kiseleva (Marketing Manager). Over the years “Inkas” have played vital roles in the automotive industries across so many region, how do you feel coming into Nigeria? Like I said earlier today on an interview, it already due to lunch in Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Uk. Inkas being part of United Nations Emergency Force few years ago in Egypt, did that bring about growth in your business? I wouldn’t say growth, all because growth is a slow process rather expansion to some part of the world being recognized for being part of that project carried out in Egypt for the peace of the country. Inkas himself project peace to the world that why we here to support the growth of the country and it military over terrorism. We look forward seeing Inkas Vehicle LLC kickoff soon!.
Maksumov: I and my team look forward putting the country in it right state over terrorism with our facilities.