The Delta State Police Command has launched a Special Squad, code named: “Operation Puff Adder” to curb activities of criminals, as well as check their sponsors in the state. Commissioner of Police, Adeyinka Adeleke, who launched the security outfit in Warri yesterday, said it was in line with the directives of the Acting Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A. Adamu to nip in the bud all form of criminality and criminal activities. While inaugurating the squad, CP Adeleke said: “The new development is aimed at repositioning the Command for effective and efficient operations.” This, according to him, will equally go a long way in curbing incidences of kidnapping, robbery, cultism and other violent crimes in Delta State as the activities of criminals are becoming too worrisome.” Adeleke recalled that within the short span of his stay in the state, the Delta State Police Command had made modest achievements in crime fighting, saying: “We have so far been able to arrest 92 suspects in connection with violent crimes such as armed robbery, kidnapping, murder and cultism, while nine kidnapped victims have been rescued and a total of 38 firearms and cache of ammunition have been recovered across the state.” The Commissioner, who also stated: “The launch of Operation puff Adder outfit would further ensure a safer environment for the people of Delta State as it is aimed at taking policing in the state closer to the communities, with the Area Commanders (ACs) and Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) heading the teams in their respective areas of operation. It will no doubt increase police visibility and shore up the response time of distress calls and serve as deterrence to criminals. “The operation will be under my direct supervision. The personnel for this operation are drawn from the conventional police and Tactical Units such as, Mobile Police Force, Special Protection Unit, Quick Response Squad, Anti-Cultism and Kidnapping Squad, State Intelligence and Investigation Bureau (SIIB), among other police units.”