The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it would convoke a national stakeholders’ dialogue on the management of electoral process in Nigeria, within the next two months.
The dialogue, which would involve all stakeholders in the electoral process, would also include a critical review of the 2008 Justice Mohammed Uwais’ committee report as well as reports of other committees instituted since 1986 on the conduct of elections in the country.
INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who announced this yesterday at a meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs), itemized 17 issues which, he said, would dominate discussion at the dialogue.
“We are convinced that until we get our electoral process on the right, consistent and progressively positive trajectory, our efforts at nation-building and promoting peace and progress shall remain epileptic,” Yakubu noted.
Among issues to be discussed at the meeting, the INEC Chairman stated, would include the number of political parties and mode of party registration; election security; movement and security of personnel and materials; funding; the use of technology to deepen the electoral process; transmission of election results; electoral legal framework; personal conduct of politicians, especially the do-or-die attitude of politicians, among others.
He expressed the hope that the national conversation would “be qualitatively different from what was done in the past and benefit from all previous efforts at reform.”
Yakubu, who noted that in the past 40 years, almost all elections conducted in the country had been accompanied by the report of one committee or another on electoral reform, said there is the need to take into consideration the reports of previous committees on electoral reform.
He listed the previous committee reports to be reviewed during the dialogue to include the Babalakin Commission of Inquiry into the affairs of the Federal Electoral Commission (FEDECO in 1986), the Uwais report on electoral reform (2008), the Lemu Committee on post-election violence (2011), the Ken Nnamani Committee on constitutional and electoral reform (2017), the various administrative reports by INEC, investigation reports by the security agencies (the Nigeria Police and the Nigerian Army), the independent studies by the National Human Right Commission (2015 and 2017), the judgements of the various election petition tribunals, the reports of domestic and international observers, record of public hearing for the amendment of the electoral legal framework by the National Assembly as well as confessional statements by some political actors.
“There is value in revisiting all these reports. The commission will work with stakeholders in undertaking such a comprehensive review in earnest.
“The commission hopes that the recommendations arising from the national conversation will feed into an enduring reform of our electoral process,” Yakubu added.
The meeting with the RECs, which he said was the first since the conduct of the 2019 general election, would finalise the activities and timelines for the stakeholders’ dialogue.
The INEC Chairman also disclosed that many observer groups that monitored the last elections have submitted their interim and final reports.
He promised that the commission would “dutifully study these reports and take into consideration the actionable recommendations in planning for future elections.”