 On Monday April 29, a special art exhibition opened at Thought Pyramids Arts Centre, Wuse II, Abuja. It was the climax of a month-long project, involving children living with the condition, Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). The participating children were accompanied by their teachers and supported by their parents as Abuja art audience turned out to appreciate the 40 paintings on display. Some of the titles exhibited include “Around with Colours,” “Beauty Within,” “Colourful Expression,”“Hand of God,” “Landscape,” “Footprints,” “Full Moon,” and “Night Flight.”  Every year, the 2nd day of April is recognised internationally as World Autism Awareness day by the United Nations. This is aimed at encouraging societies across the world to adopt measures that will raise consciousness about the condition. ASD is a developmental disorder that varies in severity and is often characterized by difficulty in social interaction and its symptoms include repetitive patterns of thought and behaviour. It begins in early childhood, and usually interferes with the person’s daily living.
Keying into the noble goals of the UN regarding autism, the Thought Pyramid Arts Centre, initiated the AutismART project, which will use art as instrument to address the attitude of society towards people living with the disorder. By initiating AutismArt, Mr Jeff Ajueshi, artistic director of the gallery, acknowledges the effectiveness of the use of art as a tool than can have far reaching effects in opening up channels of communication for autistic children. Through art the children are able to express their thoughts and feelings which they may otherwise struggle to achieve, since they do not communicate in conventional manner.  The activity stage of AutismARTproject started on April 1 and ended on April 19, with the following professional artists-volunteers, Obi Nwaegbe, Chidinma Ikegwuonu and Uche Uguru, as facilitators. They were involved in daily visits to the 4 selected schools in Abuja, namely: Aduvie International School, Dewdrops Community Centre, Davids Place Hillside School, and The Zeebah Foundation. They worked in collaboration with teachers of these participating schools to engage the children in art sessions, which resulted in the realisation of the interesting paintings in the exhibition.  According to Obi Nwaegbe, the lead facilitator, of the project, “the approach we adopted was to give the children freedom by giving them materials and allowing them to ‘play’ around and to see what can come out. For those who are good with colours, we let them flow, but for those whose strengths lie in their impulses, we let them throw out their energies recklessly within our control.”Nwaegbe says that through AutismArt, he has become convinced that there is a lot of value in human resources that can be tapped from children with spe.