Ogun State government has commended beverage giant, Coca-Cola Nigeria, for donating a block of five classrooms and 10 units of sanitation facilities to the First Baptist Primary School, Ijaye Oja-Ale, Abeokuta. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Aikulola Ola, and the Chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Alhaji Olatunde Okewole, gave the commendation in separate remarks at the inauguration of the project in Abeokuta. Coca-Cola Nigeria, through its foundation, had donated the classrooms and sanitation facilities with playground and a library equipped with audio-visual facilities to provide conducive learning environment and hygienic condition for pupils. The school, which was established in 1910 as a missionary institution before becoming publicly owned in the 1970s, lacked power supply until the donor’s intervention. Speaking at the handover ceremony of the project held on the school premises, Ola, who represented outgoing Governor Ibikunle Amosun, expressed appreciation of the state government, saying the project would help in improving the quality of education offered to the pupils while also impacting the community positively. He said: “Despite the success that has been recorded by the state government in the education sector in the past years, this result would nothave been outstanding without the unflinching support of public spirited individuals, educators and corporate concerns such as Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited.” On his part, Okewole said the holistic interventions by the donor into the critical areas of school need were timely and in line with the Education for All (EFA) declaration. Delivering the keynote remarks, the Managing Director, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Mr. Bhupendra Suri, disclosed that the company had given back nearly $1 billion to help strengthen local communities worldwide. Suri, who was represented by the Public Affairs and Communications Manager, Amaka Onyemelukwe, reiterated the company’s commitment to helping people and communities. He said: “Each decision our company makes is a chance for us to do the right thing. We are relentlessly selfaware of our role in the world and the impact we can have. That is why we are investing to help care for the people and communities we deepen on to succeed.”