Revenues generated by FinTech platforms will soar from around $263 billion currently to $638 billion by 2024 as customers become more accepting of artificial intelligence (AI).  That is according to analysis by Juniper Research, which said that FinTech would become the “new normal” and fundamentally change how financial services are delivered.  Smart contracts, loan underwriting using AI to analysis non-traditional data, and personalised insurance based on the internet of things (IoT) are all set to become mainstream.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) recently reinstated its commitment to the growth of Fintech in Nigeria and the capital market.  The Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema who stated this at the FinTechNGR Social Meet 4.0, hosted by The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in Lagos said: “At the NSE, one of our key strategies is the segmentation of our market with the introduction of a Growth Board to cater to companies with high growth prospects, including FinTechs emerging from Venture Capital management to a more mature management that would require public investment and corporate consolidation.  “This approach, in our opinion, would assist companies with high growth potential, leverage public finance for growth and expansion. Apart from this, we are also exploring alternative platforms to catalyse smart and innovative capital raise, leveraging new technologies like the Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)”.  Onyema noted that the theme of the event tagged “Growth Funding and Strategic Capital Raise – Extending Financial Inclusiveness through the Capital Market” was of particular interest to the Exchange due to its connection to the Exchange’s core function as a hub for accessing capital. He added that it was also of key interest to the larger economy, particularly the business community of start-ups and SMEs.  “While we are focused on delivering on our mandate to be Africa’s Preferred Exchange Hub, the bigger picture is to create a dynamic marketplace that fuels growth and empowers our people towards excellence in business and ventures. “According to KPMG’s “2018 Global Analysis of Investment” equity investment into global FinTech companies almost tripled from $18.9 billion to $50.8 billion between 2013 and 2017; and has continued to gain traction.