The race for the best of Romarox Tourism Photo Competition 2019 has begun, with the brain behind the project, former Miss Nigeria, Rosemary Nkem Okeke, disclosing that the event is inspired by the urgency to boost domestic tourism in Nigeria so as to add value to the nation’s economy.
She disclosed this during the recent official launch and media conference held in Lagos to announce the start of the competition this year. Giving details of the competition, which is opened to all Nigerians, Okeke said Nigeria tourism despite its rich and abundant resources lacks development.
‘‘In order to achieve our desired status as a global player in the comity of first world nations, there is still much to be done pertaining to our tourism industry, its growth and sustainability,’’ she said.
Putting the photo competition in perspective, she disclosed that: ‘‘With a view to encourage domestic tourism and to ensure patronage of our local tourist sites by Nigerians, the Sub Urban Heritage Initiative (SUHI) launched the Romarox Tourism Photo Competition on April 26, 2012 in Abuja and was subsequently endorsed by the then Minister of Tourism, Culture and National Orientation.
‘‘The competition seeks to ensure that members of the Nigerian public appreciate her own immediate environment. It has embodied in its goals the noble intention of spreading the message of peace, hope, love and the strength that is characteristic of the Nigerian people.
‘‘It also prides itself with passing down values of our heritage of love to the under privileged people among us through the skill empowerment projects of the Sub-Urban Heritage Initiative geared towards their socio-economic growth and development.
‘‘It is a medium for Nigerians to explore potential of their immediate environment hence making it a prospect that has immense economic viability which entails among others job creation, promote backward integration to the sub-urban than the urban.’’
Therefore, she enjoined every Nigerian, foreign resident and those who have ever visited Nigeria to participate in the competition, ‘‘by uploading on the website, original pictures of tourist attraction sites in their immediate environment in any and every category of the competition, which are: Special scenery, natural wonders, legendary materials/iconic human, ecosystem festivals, history, monuments, developed tourist sites.’’
Entries for the competition she said opened since March 2 and closes on October 16 while voting is billed to hold between October 17 and November 17. She further disclosed that every photo uploaded on the platform attracts N5, 000 while participants are allowed to enter for more than one category and upload as many photos as they can in each category.
The star prize at stake is a brand new car while the first runner up go home with a digital camera and N500, 000 will be offered to each winner of the seven categories with consolation prizes.