SANCTIONS
Companies that are listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) are required to adhere to high disclosure standards  The NSE has fined about 37 quoted companies N430.9 million for failure to file their audited financial statements after the regulatory due date.
Checks by New Telegraph showed that some of the companies were sanctioned for their inability to meet the regulatory requirements ranging between full year ended December 31, 2017 and full year 2018. The companies include Abbey Mortgage Bank Plc., Academy Press Plc., International Breweries Plc., Mutual Benefit Assurance Plc., NPF Microfinance Bank Plc. and AG Leventis Plc. Others are PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc., Meyer Plc., Presco Plc. and Royal Exchange Plc., among others. The Exchange, in its X-Compliance report, explained that the initiative was designed to maintain market integrity and protect investors by providing compliance-related information on all listed companies.
The report stated: “Companies that are listed on the Exchange are required to adhere to high disclosure standards, which are prescribed in Appendix 111 of the Listing Rules. “Financial information, which is periodic disclosure and on-going material events disclosure, should be released to The Exchange in a timely manner to enable it efficiently perform its function of maintaining an orderly market.” NSE, in an effort to achieve a world class capital market, has reiterated its commitment to maintain zero tolerance posture on dealing member firms and quoted companies on violations of rules and regulations.
This on the back of the exchange’s determination to shift gears to drive innovations cantered on increasing global visibility for the Nigerian capital market in the current year. The Chief Executive Officer of NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said recently that the Exchange will sustain a zero-tolerance stance on dealing member firms and listed companies’ violations to help boost confidence in the market. Managing Director Crane Securities, Mr. Mike Eze, said the action of NSE will boost investors’ confidence in the market because it is sending a signal that NSE’s management understands the need for investors to get companies’ financial reports as and when due. Eze said sanctioning erring companies are ways by which the Exchange is telling the investing public that they really want to revive confidence in the market.
He added that investors need to take informed decisions before choosing, which stock to buy. And this could only be achieved if there is adherence of good corporate governance by the quoted companies. A founding member of Nigeria Shareholders Solidarity Association (NSSA) and one of the leading shareholders’ activists, Alhaji Gbadebo Olatokunbo, said penalizing erring companies is a signal that it is no longer business as usual. “The action is great and it shows that the NSE management is becoming alive to its responsibilities. Besides, it is a signal to the companies in particular and the capital market in general that it is no longer business as usual. We must always abide by the rules.” He noted that the sanction would make other companies sit up and post their results as and when due, thereby providing investors, analyst and stockbrokers the platform to predict the real value of the companies.