It was a keen contest in Season one grand finale of Hymnodia, the first-ever reality TV show created around hymns and worship, as hymntestants (contestants) painstakingly showcased their talents in diverse dimensions of hymn rendition in a bid to outwit their counterparts. At the end of the contest, held last Wednesday, April 24 at the MUSON Centre Lagos, Kenneth Ekhuemelo (hymntestant no 6) emerged winner, beating all comers to win the grand prize, the ASAPH. In addition to the ASAPH, a specially designed award named after David’s chief musician, the prize for Ekhuemelo included a cash reward of N5 million and a brand-new car. The grand finale was a colourful concert of hymns tagged the Hymncert, which ended the 14-week show piece that offered triple ‘E’ (entertainment, education and edification) benefits to its continuously growing fan base. The duo of Kenneth and Olumide ‘the baritone’ Dada, have been sustaining their high tempo among the hymntestants in the closing stanzas of the Hymnodia competition, breaking away from the different twist of renditions in classical and contemporary hymns. At the final concert, it came down to two of them despite the spirited renditions by the other Top 5 finalists, Mobolanle Oladimeji (who came third), Abigael Nnadi and Rachael Darley. After Olumide had belted a superb rendition to a standing ovation by the judges and the audience, it seemed the prize was his for the taking. That was until Kenneth took the stage and thrilled with a superlative rendition. The race was tight and the decision depended on a combination of public votes and the judges’ scores and the night favoured Kenneth, the bazofundo who was almost hymnvicted (evicted) from the Hymnstitute twice on the admission day. After receiving the ASAPH and his other prizes, Ekhuemelo stated: “Firstly, l am grateful to God and have to really thank Him for this opportunity to showcase and enhance my talent. I commend Hymnodia for this great opportunity. I am also grateful to my family and those that appreciate me.” Music Director of Hymnodia, Seun Owoaje, said Ekhuemelo’s rendition was absolutely fantastic. “Your appearance was like that of a Roman conqueror. You fought doggedly and had the right confidence of a great singer. You did very well throughout.”
On their part, legendary musician Onyeka Onwenu and Dupe Ige Kachi (popularly known as Ige Sings) not only stood up for Kenneth after his rendition, but also extolled him for his excellent performance.