Despite the abundance of tomato in Nigeria, reports revealed that the country needs to produce additional 500,000 tonnes of fresh tomatoes to meet her annual demand for local consumption. Taiwo Hassan reports  Indeed, Nigeria is the largest producer of tomatoes in sub-Saharan Africa with an annual yield of 1.8 million tonnes, mostly produced in the North.
But unfortunately, the country lacks preservation technology for this produce, as they just expose the perishable fruit out in the open, exposing it to wind, flies and other natural threats.
Statistically, inadequate storage, processing facilities and wastages in tomatoes value chain is costing Nigeria’s economy about $15 billion in post-harvest losses annually.
Ironically, in spite of Nigeria’s nearly 2 million tonnes annually, about 40 per cent of the crop never makes it to the market, thereby impacting food security and smallholder farmers’ incomes.
However, stakeholders have suggested that the challenges facing the country’s tomato value chain need a holistic effort to address post-harvest losses in the country.
Ideally, Nigeria has the potential to grow 6000 tonnes of fresh tomatoes yearly but is yet to capitalise on the potential due to the inability of the Federal Government to effectively implement policies that would drive investments and serve as incentive for farmers to grow more.
Deficits
At an agric forum in Ibadan, Oyo State recently, the quest to achieve national demand in tomato value chain came to the front burners, as experts discussed the way out to achieving the set objective.
Speaking at the occasion, the Executive Director of the National Horticultural Research Institute (NIHORT), Ibadan, Dr Abayomi Olaniyan, said that Nigeria needs to produce additional 500,000 tonnes of fresh tomatoes to meet annual local consumption demand, apart from industrial utilisation.
“Tomato production of Nigeria is still short of what is demanded,” he said. “Annual production figure for tomatoes is about 1.8 million tonnes, while demand is 2.3 million tonnes.”
Olaniyan said tomato is one of the most important and major vegetables grown in Nigeria, a valuable raw material in processed products such as juice, puree, paste, ketchup/sauce; dry slices; powder and canned or bottled tomato.
“It is a profitable horticultural crop that provides income to farmers and agents involved in its production and marketing,” he added.
According to him, tomato production is capable of generating employment, steady income for farmers and reliable source of raw materials to industrial processors.
He, however, pointed out that the country had been sitting on the goldmines of agricultural resources but had not been mining such for lack of adequate equipment, caused by over-reliance on crude oil.
New approach
The institute’s Executive Director said that a new approach is needed to effective change in reducing the quantity of tomato imported into the country, especially during the lean season supply of the commodity.
According to him, change in paradigm shift in the country’s tomato value chain will go a long way to address the deficit in the sector and also allow the country to meets its national demand for the produce.
“Processing tomato would initiate an effective change in reducing the quantity of tomato imported into the country, especially during the lean season supply of the commodity,” he said.
Challenges
No doubt, the country’s tomatoes industry is facing numerous critical challenges in the areas of pest, disease, lack of fertiliser, poor irrigation, low quality seed, difficult roads and no cold storage – that really undermined progress in the sector.
On paper, it made perfect sense that Nigeria produces nearly two million tonnes of tomatoes each year, but farmers are unable to produce the quality and quantity of tomatoes, since there is deficit in the establishment of state-of-the-art tomatoes plants in the country, which could have been the catalyst solution to the gap in the sector.
Tales
It is no longer news that tomato farmers, mostly in Northern part are losing over 40 per cent of their yield due to poor storage and processing facilities amid mostly traditional methods of drying the fruits.
This has caused the farmers fortunes in investment losses, as they are angry about the lack of preservation technology for their produce.
Idris Garba, a tomato farmer in Kokami village in Katsina State, said there are advantages to using sun to dry his crops.
“We do this whenever we face a shortage of buyers. If you don’t preserve (the tomatoes), they will get rotten easily, but if we dry them here, they become dried tomatoes and can last for one to two years,” he said.
Sun drying involves spreading tomatoes on bare ground for about eight days. There is no means of protecting the fruit from wind, rain or animals. As a result, many farmers incur huge losses.
Dahiru Mohammed lost about 450 baskets of tomatoes when the rains came. “We didn’t think there would be rain. We spread the tomatoes on the ground and the rain destroyed them. I lost it all,” he disclosed.
For 50-year-old Salisu Jibrin, rain is not the only problem. “I have to chase animals that come here to eat my tomatoes. Despite my age, I have to chase goats and cows because this is my source of living,” he said.
Idris Umar another tomato farmer explained that he pays young villagers about N30,000 to dry 300 baskets of tomatoes. He said that if there was an alternative way of storing tomatoes, he would use the money to expand his farm and take care of his family.
Last line
However, stakeholders in the tomatoes industry are pessimistic about the country’s quest to meet the deficit in the sector, saying since 1970s, there has been a raft of high-profile government campaigns to fix agriculture. Incrementally, Nigeria seems to be slotting the pieces into place in a bid to get out of the woods to feed her populace abundantly.