The zoning of Senate Presidency and National Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Yobe State in the North-East has triggered political crisis in the zone. A party chieftain said that the leadership of the APC is not taking into consideration the equitable distribution of positions in the party. The two states – Borno and Yobe – contesting keenly for the post of Senate President are also the states contesting for the position of the National Secretary of the ruling party, the APC. According to the APC chieftain, who spoke on condition of anonymity, there is no way a state in a zone would produce the Senate President and the National Secretary of the party at the same time and there would be political peace in the zone. The APC leadership had zoned the Senate Presidency to Yobe State, while the state is still agitating to retain the position of the National Secretary that is vacant. The post of the APC National Secretary became vacant when the former party scribe, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni was given a waiver to contest the governorship ticket of the party in Yobe State. Buni secured the party’s ticket and won the March 9 governorship election in the state. He is due for inauguration on May 29. Since the position of the APC National Secretary became vacant, other states in the North-East zone have indicated interest to replace Buni in the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. But last week Friday, the governor of Yobe State, Ibrahim Gaidam sent a letter to the NWC members insisting that the state must bring a replacement for Buni. The letter, which was copied to all the NWC members, was brought to the NWC meeting by the outgone National Secretary, Buni. Speaking on the development, a source said the governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima threatened to withdraw his support for Senate Leader, Dr. Ahmed Lawan for the position of the Senate President. The party source said Shettima had given his backing to Senator Lawan because he believed that Borno State would be allowed to produce a replacement for the outgone APC National Secretary. “You would recall that the Borno State governor was the first governor from the North to back Lawan against the candidature of former Senate Leader, Ali Ndume, who is from Borno State. “Lawan is from Yobe State, but the insistence that the same state would bring a replacement for the National Secretary has changed the consideration of Borno State for the Senate Presidency,” the source said. The source argued that the Yobe State governor prefers the position of the party National Secretary to the Senate President. Based on the letter written by Governor Geidam, the APC NWC, on Friday, issued a statement appointing the Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giadom, as the Acting National Secretary of the party, “pending when Yobe State nominates a replacement for the former National Secretary, Mai Mala Buni, who is the Governor-elect of Yobe State.” Shettima, it was learnt, had earlier written to the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, introducing Arc. Waziri Bullama from Borno State as a replacement for Buni. However, another party member said that the position of the National Secretary would not affect the zoning of the Senate President already zoned to Yobe State. According to the party source, Adamawa State, also from the North-East, has the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and the National Vice Chairman of the zone. The source said: “This is not the first time a state would be producing two or three major positions in the party. Adamawa State has the SGF and APC National vice Chairman positions. Even the APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is still trying to take the Deputy Senate President to his State (Edo State).”