   T he importation and fuelling of generators by banks, corporate organisations and homes in Nigeria has gulped a whopping $32.6 billion (over N10 trillion) in the last two years as the Africa’s biggest economy struggles with gross inefficiency of power supply.  Analysts at the FBNQuest Research, who declared this in an e-document obtained exclusively by New Telegraph at the weekend, maintained that businesses and homes in the country spent approximately $16.3 billion (over N5 trillion) to import and fuel generators every year.  Declaring this as one on the “many shortcomings” in the Nigerian power industry, the FBNQuest Research added on its Twitter page that such controversial business spending has drawn its interest. “Our interest, however, is the Nigerian power industry and its many shortcomings such that business spends an estimated N5trillion (US$16.3billion) annually on importing and fuelling generators,” the top notch financial institution said.   This came as power supply inefficiency rocking the country took a toll on the business concerns. Telecommunications giant, MTN, checks showed, spent an estimated N16 billion to fuel its diesel-power generators in two years. The spending did not include the amount expended by the company on importation of hundreds of generators.  In many households and small scale businesses in Nigeria, small business generators are powered by price-capped fuel, the big generators for larger firms, apartment complexes and more substantial homes can only run on diesel,” another report by Reuters read.  Quoting Tunde Leye, a Lagos-based analyst with SBM Intelligence, the report read; “Businesses may struggle to survive, or in the best case scenario, would at least downsize. Diesel is the second or third biggest cost for many Nigerian firms.”  Bank branches rely on generators, with diesel often accounting for 20-30% per cent of banks’ operating expenses, according to Reuters. “Telecommunications companies also need them to run their mobile phone towers across the country. Telecoms giant, MTN (MTNJ.J) told local media in 2015 that it spends N8 billion ($26 million) annually on diesel to power generators,” the report added.  Even bakeries also rely on generators as alternative source of power. At Rehoboth Chops and Confectioneries Ltd, a bakery in the Ogba district of Lagos, giant diesel-powered ovens bake hundreds of loaves of bread.  The factory runs 24-hours a day, six-and-a-half days a week.  The lights, mixers and fans that clear the heat are powered by two large diesel generators outside. The ovens run directly on diesel, so they never cut out. Chief operating officer of the company, Abayomi Awe, said they use cheaper grid power when they can, but rely on generators for around 20 hours per day. Grid power can be down for days. “It becomes difficult for us to expand if the price of diesel goes up,” he said as bakers scrambled to pull finished loaves from steaming ovens.  “It might result in some companies, some bakeries like ours, shutting down.”  Nigeria and German engineering group, Siemens (SIEGn.DE), it would be recalled, agreed in July to nearly triple the country’s “reliable” power supply to 11,000 megawatts by 2023. This same plan is not new and the company has abandoned such plans before.