 Ikeja Electric (IE) at the weekend deepened the bilateral power supply deals and investments in its franchise areas as it inked a 20 hours daily supply contract with firms and residents in Government Reserve Area (GRA), Ikeja. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the power utility company, Dr. Anthony Youdeowei, who led the company’s delegation at the signing ceremony held at the IE’s corporate headquarters in Lagos, maintained that his company would through the deal deliver “a minimum of 20 hours supply daily” to Ikeja GRA. This new deal, he said came as a result of the success recorded through a similar deal signed between Ikeja Electric and Residents of Magodo, another high-brow community under its franchise. “Today, we are signing willing buyer willing seller power purchase agreement with Incorporated Trustees of Ikeja GRA residents Association in line with the company’s Bilateral Power Agreement,” he said. The power supply, he explained, is a minimum of 20 hours of power supply for residents and businesses at the association in Ikeja GRA includes streets like Oduduwa, Isaac John, Joel Ogunaike, Fani Kayode, among other. In its previous Power Purchase deal with Magodo Residents, it stated that “with the agreement, IE will provide the residents with electricity supply beyond the existing standards, with guaranteed performance levels. In addition, there will also be access to dedicated Customer Care and Technical teams for prompt resolution of queries and/or technical issues within the estate.” Also, the Chief Operating Officer, IE, Mrs. Folake Soetan expressed confidence in the success of the trend-setting agreement, which she noted was in line with the Federal Government’s willing seller, willing buyer policy. Chairman of Ikeja GRA power committee, Barrister Kennedy Anyiam-Osigwe, who expressed satisfaction with the agreement, noted that the GRA Ikeja would play its part of the deal by ensuring prompt bill payment system. Saying that the negotiation for the agreement lasted for about three years, Anyiam-Osigwe said: “The IkejaGRA is very strategy area and we found out that we are having very poor service. We thought okay, how do we find solution to this. When we tried to see what we can do, we engaged with Ikeja Electric and see how we can have a nearly 24 hours power, and they argued that it may be difficult – it may be  challenge to give us 24 hours power but they could give us premium power within 20 – 22 hours daily. We engaged them in so many meetings, negotiations and today we have signed the agreement.” On wire tapping and sharp practices by electricity customers, he said; “The arrangement we have is that anybody who is found wanting among our members should just be cut off by Ikeja Electric.” The Power Purchase Agreement suggests residents of the Ikeja GRA will enjoy a steady power supply when compared to non-residents. However, they will have to pay tariffs much higher than is provided for in MYTO. Residents in Magodo who currently enjoy a similar arrangement informed newsmen that they pay higher tariffs but have enjoyed regular power supply and often go days without a power cut. They also explain that even when the power cuts they get messages from Ikeja Electric explaining why the power was cut and indicating when it will return. We understand Ikeja Electric still relies on the grid to deliver this power as such power cuts will still be expected in the transmission and distribution end.