F ollowing the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM)’s decision to recapitalise the insurance sector, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Achor Actuarial Services Limited, Pius Apere, has advised the Commission to also review the classification arrangement being adopted for the micro-insurance segment of the sector. This, he said, would prevent conventional insurers, who are likely to downscale to micro-level from not taking advantage of the market because of their size against beginners. Apere, who gave the advice at the 4th National Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO) National Conference in Lagos, maintained that providing a level playing field for all the operators would instill confidence in customers to patronise companies of their choice. According to him, “the above would no doubt increase the number of micro-insurance providers needed significantly, which will in turn accelerate insurance penetration at the grassroots in the country. Such unrecapitalized conventional companies would leverage more on their existing IT infrastructure, quality staff and with relatively lower expected strain on resources.” He, however, expressed worries over undue price competition and other likely unethical prevalence, saying that with the micro-insurance guidelines, stating that “registered insurance companies be granted national micro-insurer licence upon application,” allowing the big insurance companies into the micro-insurance market might greatly affect the beginners. He said the tier-based arrangement would lead to situations where customers prefer to purchase insurance from National Micro-Insurers than Unit Micro-insurers due to potential risk of failure to meet claims payment obligations by the latter. He also expressed worries that the capital base proposed for micro-insurers might not be adequate to meet the cost of insurance operations including new business acquisitions, particularly for Unit micro-insurers, adding that the efficiency ratios for micro-insurers might appear worse if the cost of managing thousands of small policies is high relative to the premiums. “It is worthy of note that the Insurance Act 2003 and regulations 2003 regarding the minimum level of mathematical reserves that must be held, often combined with minimum solvency capital requirements, have the effect of (a) limiting the capital available within a company to write new business and (b) effectively placing a minimum requirement on the finance required to write a contract. Basically, the above has an indirect constraint on the amount of business that may be written. “Thus, there is a requirement for long term insurance underwriters to set aside money (free reserves, free capital or free assets) to meet the initial capital strain (or new business strain). The initial capital strain is the mathematical reserves plus any required solvency capital less the initial net cash outflow (i.e. premium income less outgo), when writing a new policy,” he said.