Thirty-two returnees from the xenophobia-ravaged South Africa, who are of Oyo State origin, were on Wednesday received by the Oyo State government, and aided with N30,000 cash gift each.
The returnees (30 adults and 2 minors) were received by the state’s Deputy Governor, Engr. Rauf Olaniyan when the Director of Media, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Mr Abdulrahman
Balogun, led them to the state governor’s office.
Receiving them, the deputy governor said the state government would carry out a profiling of the returnees to ascertain their specific area of needs and attend to them.
While gifting each of the state’s returnees the sum of N30,000, Olaniyan advised them to be creative to identify and tap into investment and job opportunities in the state, while also disclosing that the Bank of Industry (BOI), was ready to assist them with funds. He therefore urged the returnees to come up with business proposals to further their areas of specialisation,
Some of the returnees included: Olakojo Sotunde, Okeleye Oluwaseun, and Lawal Bolatito. They said that they are looking up to government for start-up capital and jobs.
According to Olakojo: “I will like the government to assist us in any way they can. We need jobs. I am a graduate of History and International Relations from LASU. Back in South Africa, I had a registered business and was doing well until all of a sudden came the xenophobia started.
“I have two cars at the car lot that I wanted to sell because I had the intention to come back home no matter what. I came home two times last year but when I came, there was really nothing, so I had to go back. I was contemplating on staying back in South Africa or coming back to Nigeria. But lo and behold, xenophobia started last month and the whole story changed. I will like the government to assist us in any way they can.
“There are some of us that need jobs. Some other people are business owners. If you can get us jobs, can set us up in businesses, we will be glad.”