Prince Abdullahi Muhammed is generally known as Elephant, not because of his size, but because of his philanthropic gesture to the people and the less privileged. In this Interview with MUHAMMAD BASHIR, the governorship candidate of the Accord Party in the November 16, 2019 gubernatorial election, reeled out his programmes. Excerpts:  You are aspiring to be the governor of Kogi State, that means you will be going into the governorship race on November 16. What are your chances? Judging by the reach of our party in the state and my endorsement by several political and cultural groups across the state. I can confidently say that my chances of victory are very bright  How strong is your party in the state? Accord Party is the third largest political party in Kogi State, with structures and presence in all the 21 Local government areas. What would you do differently if elected as the governor? My agenda is to restore Kogi State to its former glory, hence my campaign slogan; ‘Restoration’. How do you mean? In order to restore the state to its former glory I have gathered experts from all facets of human endeavours, all whom are of Kogi State origin. And after series of meetings and well thought deliberation, they have formulated the ‘Restoration Masterplan and Policy’ document.  How effective will the document be? The document contains 18 economic agenda and blueprint for total restoration of Kogi State. I will make it public at our party campaign rally, which will commence soon. What is the main thrust of the programme? You will see it in the restoration document; it covers jobs, war on corruption, and gender equality, just to name a few. That is just the few among many others. Specifically, what are your programes for the state? My programmes are contained in my 18 points economic agenda and the blueprint for total restoration of Kogi State. We are going to cover agriculture, fiscal framework, youth development, crime eradication, education, health, human settlement, water and sanitation, people with disabilities, traditional institution, Science & Technology, sports, arts, culture & recreation, Information Communication Technology, road infrastructure, social development and state capacity. The major issue in the state is said to be absence of human and physical development, do you have the capacity to rewrite the narrative? Most definitely, I have the capacity and I am very capable to change the narrative of Kogi State and build both human and physical development. My primary objective of putting myself forward for the office of the governor of Kogi State is to bring infrastructural development and build the human capacity of the state Many people have been raising concerns over the coming election. Their fears are that the polls would be violent. Aren’t you nursing such fears? I am of the opinion that violence is never an answer to any problem. Also elections in Nigeria had been fraught with cases of violence, but it is my belief and hope that on November 16th, 2019, we shall witness a violence-free election in Kogi State. I strongly believe that this election will set the standard as a good example, which other states shall learn and emulate. Many believe that the major contenders in the coming election are the ruling APC and main opposition, the PDP. Can your party spring any surprise? All the parties in the coming election are major contenders. I say this because the political landscape in Nigeria is changing and voter literacy is on a steady rise. This is mostly due to influence of social media which made it possible for candidates to reach out to voters, and pass across their campaign messages. Also, judging by the outcome of the last general elections in February 2019, it is evident that voters are more interested in personalities and not the political parties. Therefore, it is erroneous to say APC and PDP are the major contenders in the forthcoming gubernatorial elections in our dear state. A major reference point is that of a former governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko of Labour Party, who despite the odds and that Labour Party was not a major contender defeated the PDP and the ACN to emerge winner and governor of Ondo State in 2009. Many have expressed lack of confidence in the leadership of INEC and the police. Are you part of those that are skeptical? As a law-abiding citizen of this nation, I reserve my comment on INEC and police in the state. This is because I am still observing the situation very closely. What are your expectations for the coming election? It is my expectation that the election will be credible, free, fair and devoid of violence. Therefore, I urge INEC and security agencies to ensure that no stone is left unturned in ensuring that we have a free, fair and violencefree poll in the state on November 16. What is your advice to the electorate? I will advice the electorate to be lawabiding. They should resist the urge to get involved in any from of violence and irregularities during the polls. I will also encourage them to come out and vote for the Accord Party and defend their votes.