Ayoola Michael Akinbile is one of the leading lights among his contemporaries as a professional dancer. Besides dance, he is also an actor, a poet, motivator, and choreographer. In a chat with Saturday Telegraph, Akinbile, who is the CEO/ Artistic Director of Dynamic Tales Entertainment Company, recalls how perseverance, focus, determination and commitment to his art has brought to limelight and has set him on the part of greatness.  He recalled that his journey into dance started when he joined troupes such as Golden Crown Troupe in 2002 and Kings Performing Arts Troupe in 2015 where he went through intensive training in Nigerian indigenous dances. “In 2006, 10 dancers were selected to join a professional dance company called Gongbeat Productions at the National Theatre, Iganmu, Lagos, but I was the only one that stayed because of my passion and dream. Then in 2007, I joined Danzodey@z Academy where my adventure into contemporary style of dance began. I went through series of training by both indegenous and foreign choreographers and teachers to have an indepth understanding and acquire more skills to further equip me in my journey which earned me the cap of a dance captain of the academy,” he said.  “To further satisfy my curiosity in the world of dance, in 2010, I was one of the first set of dancers in an academy organised by Corporate Dance World called Dancedeal Foundation where I learnt some latin and ballroom dancing and more knowledge in modern expression of dance.”  According to him, in 2013, he was given the opportunity to travel to Ecole des Sables (centre for Modern and Traditional Dance) in Senegal to gain advance training dance and choreography. “Ever since then my career has taken a new leaf and my choreographing career began. “I created my first dance piece titled ‘Only Me’, a piece on the life of greed and insatiable act of man which I performed during TRUFESTA 2015 at the Goethe Institute roof top at City Hall Lagos. And that same year, I was selected to perform in an international dance festival in Cote d’ivoire called Festival Un Pas Vers L’avant 2015.  “In 2017 I created a dance piece titled IBA’YE (homage to life) a piece on giving respect to the source of our life through mothers performed by Dynamic Tales Entertainment Company in Afriganza fest in 2017, also in 2017 I was one of the choreographer that worked on a project titled ‘The Walking Stick’ by Riveting Lntegrated Limited and directed by Felix Okolo.  Then in 2018, I was selected to represent Africa in the dance category in Seoul, South Korea at the CPI (Cultural partnership initiative) 2018, organised by KOFICE (Korean Foundation on International Cultural Exchange) and SIDANCE (Seoul International Dance Festival) in South Korea. I was in South Korea for five months collaborating with participants from Philippines, Colombia, and Cambodia and created a project and performed it during Seoul international dance festival 2018.  During my stay in South Korea, I was given the opportunity to perform and share my energy in other international dance festivals like Sejong international Dance Festival where I performed ‘Only Me’, and Cheonan International dance festival where I performed a new creation that earn me an honorary certificate by the President of association of dance in Korea titled ‘Ona’ (path) which means before we can get to our destination in life we need to break loose some obstacles, while the obstacles we break will lead us to the right direction. My performance at Refiners Fire Ministry in Surulere on the 25th of August 2019, is titled ‘Rest’ which means no matter your pain and suffering in life you can only find solace and peace in God Almighty alone.”  It would be recalled that in TRUFESTA 2019, Dynamic Tales Entertainment Company performed their new work titled ‘Tribute’,”a project on respect to who we are, were and become”. But the journey has not be all rosy. Like most artistes or producers, fund remain a major headache. “My challenges are lack of fund to create new works and projects.   “But my greatest challenge in my career was in 2018 when I missed my flight to South Korea for the CPI program due to no transit visa request by AirFrance. “I fainted at the airport when I realise the flight missed is ‘at your own loss’ and have to buy your new ticket with your money’.  After I woke up I had to raise the money within three days. But I thank God that I was able to raise the money through people that God sent, then I traveled for programme. “Dance has been fulfilling for me ever since I joined the train and I never regret choosing it as a career,” Akinbile concluded.