I t was horror for many residents of Lagos yesterday as flood resulting from three days of continual rainfall rendered many people homeless and shut down traffic in different parts of the metropolis. Sunday Telegraph reports that the Ibeju-Lekki axis, which sits on mostly swampy terrain and below sea level, is the worst hit.  Some of the affected areas include the fast developing communities of Onosa, Baba Adisa, Shappati, Igbojiya, Bogije, Awoyaya, Oko-Olomi, Sangotedo, Abijo, Ogombo, Ajah, and Lekki Phase 1 Housing Estate.   A resident of Shappati, Habeeb Oke, told out correspondent that there had been three days of persistent rainfall in the area.  “The peak of the down pour was  on Friday night and it did not abate till Saturday afternoon,” Mr. Oke explained. Consequently, what used to be muddy roads with pockets of stagnant water colonies in the surrounding communities of Shappati, Igbojiya, Onosa, Baba Adisa, Oko-Olomi, Awoyaya up to Sangotedo, our reporter further gathered, were all flooded.  Mrs. Mercy Okon, who sales garri, rice, maize, beans and others foodstuffs, lamented that she lost all that she had to the flood, which she said had made her and her family homeless.  She said: “This rain has destroyed my goods; bags of rice, garri, beans and every good I stocked in my shop at Elesekan area, are now floating on top of the flooded shop.”   She added that their properties were also swept away by the flood which hit Shappati town, their place of residence, very hard.  For residents of Igbojiya, the flood also rendered the three main roads impassable as vehicle owners were forced to pack them for fear of damage.  As a result of this, the fare for commercial bike ride from Igbojiya to Shappati Bus Stop, increased from N100 to N200.  A resident simply identified as Yussuf said that it became difficult for even the commercial motor cyclists to operate due to recurrent damage the flood does to their bike.  “Everybody, rich or poor, car owners and those do not own cars, now wade through the dirty water to attend to their various businesses outside the community,” Yussuf said.  Unfortunately, their harrowing experience goes beyond getting out of their immediate community as the downpour also crippled vehicular and human movement and disrupted commercial and social activities in different parts of the metropolis.   In Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Area, traffic was completely shut down between the Shappati and Abraham Adesanya stretch of Lekki-Epe expressway yesterday. Similar gridlocks were also said to have occurred in Iyana Epaja, Ikeja, Mary land and other areas of the state.