The Centre of Excellence as Lagos is also known, witnessed a one of a kind luxury party recently. Held at the Balmoral Convention Centre at the prestigious Federal Palace Hotel in Victoria Island rather than any popular club, it was by hosted by Premium Lagos and themed “Last Day of Summer”.  Premium Lagos, a group of entertainment gurus like Stephanie Cole Chiori, Paul Cole Chiori, Godswill Cole Chiori and Daniel Cole Chiori of Achievas Entertainment in partnership with lifestyle gurus, Freda Francis of Oasis Bistro events and the controversial night life guru, Pretty Mike of PM events, hosted the party which attracted lavish & upscale party lovers from every corner of the state.  The collaborative effort birthed the new event outfit now known as Premium Lagos with promise to bring luxury and premium Lifestyle events to party lovers all over the world. The event was proudly sponsored by luxury champagne brand, Moet & Chandon, with support from Red Bull, Belvedere Vodka, Artistic Properties, Ocean Glory Commodities, ntel, Wear it All Luxury and Corporate World entertainment.  Premium Lagos made a heavy statement with the manner of revamping the Balmoral Convention Centre into a Las Vegas-styled night club, with games and a standard fashion show to entertain those present, making it arguably the liveliest and most luxurious party set ever seen in Nigeria.  The party which officially opened its doors at 7pm, had several unique sections that kept guests entertained till about 3am on a Monday in September 23. From the surprise appearance by social media sensation, Shatta Bandle from Ghana, the special performance by Turkish Flair Bartender and Mixologist, Huseyin Honamli, different games for the pleasure of attendees to the lavish display of high street fashion wears by five of Nigeria’s biggest fashion designers, it was a swell time all night long.  Guests were thrilled as the DJs held down the party while super models strutted the runway wearing designs from Stylenvee by Elsie Okpocha, DVNX by Stephanie Aleye Chiori, Omini Stitches, Glitteratti Ferrare, Alan Cruzer by Damola Cruz, Abbyke Domina and Corporate luxury by Ade George Adewole.  The runway exhibition was overseen by Stephanie Aleye Chiori of DVNX, Adebowale Adedamola for Alan Cruzer who also choreographed the models and Victoria Orji.  Hosted by Ayo Makun (AY), Nancy Isime, Freda Francis and Pretty Mike, the party was a grand gathering of high networth individuals, celebrities, socialites, royalties and corporate professionals.  Stephen ‘Paparazzi’ Chibuzor was in charge of the event flow and production with support from David Julius Arogula with DJ Consequence as official DJ with support from some of the best DJs and hypemen in Nigeria as Adekunbi Fowosere oversaw the management of all the talents at the party.  Achievas Entertainment is the company behind the biggest concerts in Lagos, having organised Olamide Live in Concert for three years between 2014 and 2016 (OLIC1-3), Run Town’s One night Only 2017, Davido’s 30 Billion Concert 2017 and Burna Boy Live 2018. It also held shows in the United Kingdom, with Alison Cole Chiori in charge of the UK branch and with Burna Boy Live in Northampton and Davido Live in Leicester as well as many college raves and parties under its belt.   Below are some photos from the luxury party…