Widespread scepticism about Federal Government’s ability to realise the  N8.155 trillion revenue projection  in its  2020 budget is casting shadow on the  excitement  generated  by the fact that President Muhammadu Buhari presented  the appropriation bill to the National Assembly much earlier than in previous years, Tony Chukwunyem writes   I t clearly appeared to be more than a coincidence that barely 24 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari presented the 2020 Appropriation Bill to  a joint session of the  National Assembly last Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) released a statement in which it cautioned the government over the risks of what it described as “Over-optimistic revenue projections.”   IMF warning   Specifically, the IMF said in the statement that “over-optimistic revenue projections have led to higher financing needs than initially envisaged, resulting in overreliance on expensive borrowing from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to finance the fiscal deficit.”    The statement was issued at the conclusion of the latest visit to Nigeria by an IMF staff team, led by the Mission Chief for Nigeria, Amine Mati.  The Fund further noted that government’s reliance on central bank for funding was leading to bigger deficits, which make monetary policy complex.  Revenue projections   The 2020 budget proposal of N10.33 trillion unveiled by President Buhari last week represents an 11per cent increase when compared to the 2019 appropriation of N9.12trillion. The President put the Federal Government’s estimated revenue in 2020 at N8.155 trillion and a deficit of N2.18 trillion. The revenue comprises oil revenue of N2.64 trillion, non-oil tax revenues of N1.81 trillion and other revenue of N3.7 trillion.   Other estimates are N556.7 billion for statutory transfers; N2.45 trillion for debt servicing and provision of N296 billion as sinking fund. The 2020 budget is based on an oil production estimate of 2.18 million barrels per day, oil price benchmark of $57 per barrel and an exchange rate of N305 to a dollar. It projects real GDP to grow at 2.93per cent while inflation rate is projected at 10.81per cent. Analysts, stakeholders’ reactions   Apart from the IMF’s statement, Nigerian analysts and industry stakeholders had also questioned government’s revenue projections in the budget.   For instance, in its preliminary review of the budget obtained by New Telegraph, the Centre for Social Justice (CSJ) faulted the projected revenue to N8.155trillion, contending that it was overly ambitious and unrealistic given the trend the national budget had taken in recent years.   The CSJ pointed out that over the years, the Federal Government had continued to propose unrealistic revenue projections, thereby  leading to poor implementation  of  budgets as  there were usually no funds to execute projects.   It noted that in 2016, revenue projections fell short by 23per cent; by 47.73per cent in 2017 and in 2018 by 45per cent.  This, according to the organisation, is an indication that those projections are not based on empirical evidence.   The CSJ said:“If projected revenue in 2018 was N7.1trillion and we missed the mark by 45per cent and have also missed the mark by 30per cent in the half year of 2019, then  further increase in projected revenue to N8.155trillion in 2020 seems to be hanging in the air. The revenue projections for 2020 should have been greatly influenced by the trend and actuals of 2018 and 2019 except there has been a dramatic change in economic circumstances warranting the new projection.”   In addition, Lead Director of the CSJ, Eze Onyekpere , faulted the $57 benchmark projected for revenue accruing from oil, arguing that it was “overtly optimistic” considering the  dynamics of the international oil market.   Similarly, he questioned the oil production estimate of 2.18 million barrels per day, stressing that it seems overly optimistic.   He said: “The revenue framework projects that Nigeria will produce 2.18mbpd. This is less than projections in previous years of 2.3mbpd. However, in 2018, the actual was 1.86mbpd while data from the first half of 2019 indicates actual production as at June 2019 of the same 1.86mbpd.  Further, Nigeria’s quota from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is currently 1.774mbpd.   “This projection of 2.18mbpd also seems overly optimistic and may not materialize. There has been no change in circumstance to warrant the new production volume. Oil revenue was below target by 41per cent  as at June 2019 and in 2017, it had a negative variance of 47per cent and in 2018, it fell short by 23per cent. Thus, the expectation from oil revenue seems not to be founded on empirical evidence and may need to be downwardly reviewed.”   Corroborating Onyekpere, a financial analyst, Mr. Victor Oluoma, told New Telegraph he was certain the Federal Government would not be able to realise N8.155 trillion as revenue projection in 2020.   He said: “Let’s begin with oil revenue projection of N2.64 trillion; the fact is that we cannot produce and sell 2.18 million barrels per day. We have never achieved that and there is nothing on the horizon that suggests  oil production will suddenly surge not when reports suggest that there is an increase in incidents of pipeline vandalism.   “If  you go back and analyse the  2016, 2017 and 2018 budgets you will find out that, the Federal Government’s revenue projections were not achieved.”   According to him, “in 2018, actual revenue collected was N3.48 trillion. So how would this jump to N8.155 trillion by next year?”   On its part, even though it commended the return to the January to December budget cycle, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) in its reaction to the budget proposals stated: “We note that the total budget size is N10.3trillion.  The recurrent component is N4.88 trillion, debt service is N2.45 trillion.  Together, these two budget items amount to 7.33 trillion, which is 90per cent  total revenue estimates.  And from the track record of revenue performance, the percentage may be much higher when related to the actual numbers.  All of these indicate that the hope for an impactful investment in infrastructure is dim and would remain so for some time to come.”   The LCCI, which spoke through its Director-General, Muda Yusuf, also described the  exchange rate assumption of N305 to the dollar as unrealistic, arguing that it was difficult to justify this assumption, especially when the country’s earnings were declining.  He said: “The key assumptions underpinning the budget are realistic except for the exchange rate assumption of N305 to the dollar.  This is one assumption that is difficult to justify, especially at a time when declining revenue has become a major issue both for the government and the citizens.”   However, in his contribution, Dr Boniface Chizea said: “The foreign exchange rate of 305 to the dollar assumed in the budget is cautionary as this is the Base Exchange rate and, therefore, exchange rate above this rate would be a bonus as it generates greater dollar inflows. But with the newly inaugurated economic council, this rate might not survive for too long.”   The general consensus among analysts seems to be that the government would again struggle to fund the 2020 budget as it did with previous years’  due to lower oil output and an inability to boost non-oil exports.  It would thus have to rely on borrowing at high costs from the CBN.   Commenting on the situation in its aforementioned statement, the IMF said: “The increasing CBN financing of the government reinforces the need for an ambitious revenue-based fiscal consolidation that should build   on the initiatives laid out in the Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative. A tight monetary policy should be maintained through more conventional tools. Managing vulnerabilities arising from large amounts of maturing CBN bills—including those held by non-residents—requires stopping direct central bank interventions, the introduction of longer-term government instruments to mop up excess liquidity and moving towards a uniform market-determined exchange rate.” “Structural reforms, particularly on governance and corruption and in implementing the much-delayed power sector recovery plan, remain essential to boosting prospects for higher and more inclusive growth.”  In the same vein, analysts at Cowry Asset Investment Limited said: “We opine that the fiscal authority should focus more on policies that will stimulate engagement of private capital in infrastructural development in order to save it the avoidable pressure of increasing its debt profile (and the attendant onerous high debt service) – it could engage private investors in arrangements such as, build-operate-transfer (BOD).  “Hence, while we note that Nigeria needs increased budget to fund critical infrastructural projects in order to facilitate ease of doing business, the pressure of increasing consumption tax amid low disposable income could further hamper economic growth which the current administration is struggling to boost,” they added.  Last line A financial consultant, who did not want his name in print, however, told New Telegraph that until the country’s entire budgeting process was overhauled, various administrations would continue to produce budget proposals that, according to him, would be completely out of touch with reality.  He said: “If you carefully study the 2020 budget and previous ones, you will discover that the civil servants who put them together are simply doing what we know as ‘cut and paste’. There are many vested interests that need to be flushed out of the system if the country really wants to have a real budget.”