Football at youth or grassroots level is always for developmental purposes. The same goes for football competitions at all levels in schools. Nigerian football has achieved more successes at the youth level than the senior cadre over the years, but it is disturbing to note that this has not translated into good results at the senior level. We recall that the golden generation witnessed in the country’s football in 1994 was not due to transition of players from one cadre of age grade football to the other, but was largely due to the continuity the then manager, Clemens Westerhof, enjoyed at the time, along with his trusted ‘army’ who, overtime, achieved cohesion and developed to be world-class stars. There are many examples to draw from collectively and individually. While some of the players made mistakes about their desperation to sign for big clubs, we note that the major problem of transition in the country’s football is administrative. For example, players in some of the teams that did not make it at African stage were never recognised to move up the ladder in the national teams. The U-20 team coached by Emmanuel Amuneke lost to Sudan over two legs and many of the players were forgotten because they did not make it to the FIFA World Cup. This has to change. It is important to remind the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and all administrators of football in the country that the objective of the world body, FIFA, in age grade football, is to promote development at all levels and to help the affiliated countries to consciously groom stars from one cadre to the order. It is not about winning at all times. At the weekend, the FIFA U-17 World Cup started in Brazil with Nigeria as one of the 24 countries competing for honours. In this cadre of football, Nigeria remains the best in the world with five wins recorded in 1985, 1993, 2007, 2013, and 2015. But sad enough, the string of successes has not added value to the country’s senior national team, the Super Eagles. So far, the Eagles are yet to play in the quarterfinal of the World Cup. The country’s best has been second round qualification. The U-20 team, on three occasions, had won the silver medal at the global level, while the Olympics team, which is the U-23 cadre, won gold in 1996, silver in 2008 and a bronze in 2016. Against Hungary in the FIFA U-17 opener last Saturday, the Eaglets were far from convincing. The defence was bad, but the movement on the ball and the skills exhibited by the players were commendable. From 2-1 down, the team went ahead to win 4-2, but it was not a champions’ or favourite team’s display by Nigeria. Coach Manu Garba will have to work extra hard to make the team better in subsequent games. More importantly, a sub, Akinwunmi Amao, was amazing in the encounter. His touches, passes and contribution in the game helped the team to win. His runs were like that of legendary Barcelona star, Lionel Messi. The authorities should take note of Amao and others who show promise, no matter the results posted by this team in Brazil. Incidentally, the Higher Institution Football League in Nigeria ended on the day the FIFA World Cup started. UNICAL won 5-4 on penalties against University of Makurdi after fulltime score stood at 1-1. However, it was sad that top national coaches and chieftains of NFF were not at the venue to watch the final. It was sad that the competition that ran for over five months was not monitored by the football authorities. In the past, it was the higher institutions that produced players for U-20 teams. We recall players like Andrew Uwe, Adeolu Adekola, Nosa Osadolor and Victor Ezekwezeli came to limelight from higher institution football. We are also aware that the Principals Cup football Competition is going on in some states, especially Lagos and Delta, but this tournament that could produce legit U-17 players is not on the radar of NFF and its coaches. The late Stephen Keshi and Henry Nwosu (MON) are some of the players discovered at secondary school level. There should be a deliberate need to search for talents at schools and grassroots level. It was happening in the past, but now lost. The on-going FIFA U-17 World Cup in Brazil is not a must win for the Eaglets, but what is important is to get the best players from the competition to form the nucleus of the next U-20 team. The transition must work here, just as it has been working without issues abroad. Manchester United’s David De Gea and Nigeria’s David Ajiboye were in opposite directions at the final of the U-17 World Cup in 2007. Nigeria won the title, but De Gea and other players in Spain’s fold are now world-class but, where is Ajiboye and others? Going forward, we charge the football authorities to be up and doing to ensure the good results recorded at age grade levels are also replicated in the senior team. That is the desire of FIFA and it is what obtains in Europe and other parts of the world. It should be the norm also in Nigeria.