…as LCCI berates Customs A group of car dealers in Lagos State have threatened to sue the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) for sealing off their business’ premises. In a letter to Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali through the law firm of Ubani & Co, the group condemned the 30th September, 2019 raid and sealing off their business’ premises by customs officers, saying the action was a demonstration of gross irresponsibility, unprecedented impunity and abuse of power. They maintained that the cars in their business’ premises were duly cleared and appropriate duties paid to the federal government. The group consequently threatened to drag the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to court if their business premises were not opened in the next two weeks with a compensation of N10 billion for their losses during the period of closure. Copies of the letter were sent to the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN). It reads: “We must state here with all sense of responsibility and patriotism that the action of Nigeria Custom officers in this regard is a demonstration of gross irresponsibility, unprecedented impunity and abuse of power. “Though the Nigeria Customs & Excise Management Act gives you the power to examine, mark, seal and take account of any goods, in this case, you did not examine, mark, seal and take account of the particular vehicles identified as not being properly cleared, but rather sealed up the entire premises without any form of examination or inspection of papers.” Meanwhile, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has berated operatives of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) for the unconditional sealing off offices and showrooms of genuine automobile dealers in Abuja and Lagos over an alleged infraction in the audit of import duty payments by the firms without recourse to extant laws. Director-General of the LCCI, Muda Yusuf explained in Lagos yesterday that there was nothing wrong with an audit exercise conducted by NCS to validate compliance with extant rules and policy of government but the ominous and intimidating manner the exercise was carried out. He said that the premises of the affected auto companies were sealed for about three weeks, paralyzing their entire operations despite the aforementioned audit exercise being carried out without the sealing up of their business premises. Yusuf, however, alluded to the fact that there was currently a disproportionate focus by Customs on revenue generation, a disposition already hurting investors and the citizens in their activities. Particularly, the drive to meet revenue targets was pushing up cost of intermediate products and other inputs imported by investors. According to him, the NCS action had portrayed danger signal to the country’s business environment for sealing off the auto companies, adding that regulatory and the enforcement powers should be exercised with due propriety and courtesy. Yusuf said: “Three weeks ago, offices and show rooms of leading automobile dealers in Lagos and Abuja were sealed up by operatives of the Nigerian customs service. “Some of these dealers are leaders in the industry, representing reputable global brands in the country. “They are members of the organized private sector representing a strong segment of the auto industry on account of their contribution to tax and customs revenue. The main objective of the Nigeria Customs action was to undertake an investigative audit regarding import duty payments by these firms. Some of these outlets have been unsealed. “The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry is a strong advocate of good corporate governance and compliance with statutory requirements by businesses. “There is nothing wrong with an audit exercise to validate compliance with extant rules and policy of government.  What is not right is the ominous and intimidating manner the exercise was carried out. “The premises of the companies were sealed for about three weeks, paralyzing their entire operations. “We believe that the audit exercise could still be carried out without the sealing up of the business premises of the companies for that length of time.”