 T here are a total of 73,818 inmates in Nigerians prisons made up of 72,342 males, 1,476 females while 22,850 have been convicted and 50,968 are awaiting trial.  Chairman of the House Committee on Reformatory Institutions, Hon. Larazus Ogbee, disclosed this at the weekend in Abuja.  He said the House has unveiled plans to foster a better administration of Criminal Justice in Nigeria with the view to strengthening prisons administration system in line with international best practices.  Ogbee expressed the committee’s commitment towards the national assignment, applauding the resolve of the leadership of the 9th Assembly to the repositioning of the prisons across the country.   “As you are aware, the Committee is first of its kind in the National Assembly though embedded in the Committee on Interior in the previous Assembly.  The Committee is an initiative in the right direction given the state of the Nigeria Prisons.  “The task before the committee represents another significant milestone in the efforts to reposition our dear country in the comity of nations.  “The committee is mandated amongst others to: oversight reformation, correctional Institutions for the treatment, training and social rehabilitation of younger offenders.   The committee is also to oversight juvenile correction centres or training schools generally not considered Prisons; formation of a comprehensive national policy which shall ensure the optimal performance of Reformatory Institutions in Nigeria as well as oversight annual budget estimates of the Institutions.   In the bid to deliver the set mandates, Hon. Ogbee called for unreserved commitment by members, just as he underscored the need for them to be guided by the highest sense of patriotism in the discharge of our constitutional responsibility.  “The task before the Committee is enormous and requires unalloyed commitment and determination to achieve the Committee’s objectives “By the extant provisions of the Nigerian Correctional Act, both custodial and non-custodial sentencing would now be permissible, our prisons will be decongested and it would generally foster a better administration of Criminal Justice in Nigeria.  “This development also brings Nigerian Prisons Administration System to par with international best practices. “The President is highly commended for this singular act but the present state of prisons all over the country urgently requires quick intervention and attention from the government beyond a name change. “Instructively, Reformation of Prisons is a challenge which various countries are tackling at different speeds and degrees of enthusiasm but success stories or experiences of countries practicing correctional facilities around the abound.   “It is our duty therefore to create the environment and legislations for complete reformation of our prisons now correctional facilities. “I am confident that the Committee will demonstrate commitments aimed at the welfare of the people irrespective of their political leanings, religious affiliation or ethnic particularities. “I say this partly because of the obvious commitment and assurance of support we have received from the leadership by being part of the Committee and by the confidence reposed on the Legislature by Nigerians. “I have no doubt that your wealth of experience will come to bear in the discharge of this crucial obligation.   “I wish to assure you all that every member of the Committee would be carried along in this assignment. My doors are open to suggestions and advice that will stand us out among other committees,” he said.