 L agos State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences Unit said it would soon auction vehicles of 31 traffic offenders already convicted by the court for driving against traffic.  The task force also plans to auction 22 automobiles abandoned for over six months after their arrest. The task force Chairman, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, disclosed that owners of the impounded vehicles, who abandoned their vehicles, had contravened the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law 2018. Egbeyemi added that public notice had been issued for owners of both the court forfeited and abandoned cars to identify their vehicles at the agency’s car parks in Ikorodu and Bolade-Oshodi.  He said: “At the expiration of the one month verification exercise the agency shall apply to court for an order of ‘Public Auction’ where members of the public would have opportunity to buy any of these vehicles.”  Egbeyemi said the owners forfeited the vehicles to government and pleaded guilty before Magistrate Omobola Salawu of the Lagos State Mobile Court at Oshodi after their arrest for driving against traffic. He affirmed that in addition to forfeiture of the vehicles, each traffic offender sentenced to 100 days of ‘Community Service’ at any public institution.  The chairman, however, said that with government’s zero-tolerance for violation of the law, the agency would continue to prosecute traffic offenders until sanity was restored on Lagos roads and law-abiding citizens were allowed to commute without being impeded by unlawful individuals.   Egbeyemi also confirmed that over 7,350 impounded motorcycles were presently in custody of the agency for plying restricted routes, including highways and bridges across the state. He added that the agency was awaiting further directives from government in respect of the impounded motorcycles. The chairman disclosed that the motorcyclists were apprehended around Agege, Pen-Cinema, Apapa, Ikorodu, Mile 2, Obalende, Oyingbo, 2nd Rainbow, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Ojota, Maryland, Yaba, Oshodi, Ikorodu Road, Apongbon, Ikeja and Iyana-Ipaja.