Climate change, it seems, is gradually but steadily bringing tears and sorrow to many in Nigeria. The steady rainfall being witnessed nowadays sweeps chaos and confusion into homes, which often times, exacerbates the poor drainage system. The fear, according to this report by ISIOMA MADIKE, is that the coming years might be worse   Climate change effects such as increased rainfall intensity, storm surges, and flooding effects are beginning to take its toll in the country, especially Nigeria’s economic capital, Lagos. The impact is no longer as distant as most people think. Though a global phenomenon that largely impacts urban life, rising temperatures, according to experts, has already started causing sea levels to rise, erratic rainfalls, increasing the number of extreme weather events such as floods, storms, and will in no time increases the spread of tropical diseases. The first factor aggravating flooding is climate change, which has shown to contribute to more extreme storms and rainfall. Lagos State is a typical example in this instance. Rainy season, which ought to have ended, is back again in full force, and as always, it is bad news for most residents in Nigeria’s mega city. Worries increase not only for inhabitants but also for visitors to Lagos who take a drive around this “Centre of Excellence” when it rains. With the rains, many parts of Lagos are back to a familiar path. Residents had to roll up trousers to walk on the streets to avoid being smeared, and motorists had to wade through waterlogged roads. The people are recounting the sad experiences of the past and are afraid of what the next weeks and months have in stock for them. At junctions of feeder streets in most parts of the sprawling city are heaps of used water sachets and debris percolated by shallow floods that found inadequate avenue of normal flows blocking the canals and waterways. Some are overgrown with weeds; others filled with refuse heaps. Ketu and Mile 12 axis are most hit in recent times. They are densely populated “ghettos,” made up of people from different parts of the country. In virtually every open space in and around these “jungles,” heaps of faeces literally jostle for space with human beings. From the homes, faeces wrapped up in newspapers are launched from windows, scattering into a spatter mess. It piles the streets as though they are articles of ornament. Yet, no one seems to bother about it. The roads, apart from being riddled with huge potholes and gullies, have been narrowed to single lanes due to the mammoth refuse congealed by rain water whose passage is inhibited by blocked drains. Whenever it rains, the flood sweeps the refuse to the middle of the road, making movement of any kind difficult. Mile 12 in particular, is actually a reflection of the sorry state of most parts of Lagos – a state which appears to have lost its excellence to putrefaction, filth and flood. Ojuelegba, a bustling centre of commercial activities and bus terminal, is also a pathetic site to behold in this season. So is Ojota-Maryland- Ikorodu Road axis, which often turns to a mini-swimming pool each time it rains. Flooding here is so severe that houses and vehicles get submerged in it, resulting in a long stretch of traffic on both sides of Ikorodu Road, a major gateway to the city. Oshodi, Mafoluku, Ijeshatedo, and FESTAC Town are equally floodprone. The Oshodi-Apapa Expressway is already a nightmare at present as motorists spend hours to navigate its difficult terrain. It is still a puzzle that a major epidemic has not broken out in this environ, given the mountains of refuse that dot the landscape. The rains have, however, compounded the situation as motorists and pedestrians now wade through the ocean-like streets. Allen Avenue, one of the major commercial centres, which is also close to Alausa, the seat of the state government, is fast losing its glamour too. The flood at the Alade Market end of the road makes the road impassable for cars and pedestrians. They are, most times, forced to make a detour or fold up their dresses before they can ‘swim’ through the place. The same scenario plays out in Ikeja Roundabout and Oba Akran Avenue. On Agege Motor Road, the situation is also terrible. Though, a federal road, the state government has taken it upon itself to repair it. But, just as those handling the road are busy working on it, heaps of refuse jostle for space at the other side of the highway. “The situation is pathetic,” says Idayat Balogun, a nurse in one of the private hospitals in the metropolis. According to her, the situation deteriorated when most of the local government areas decided to turn sites meant for refuse dump to shopping malls. “Now, there is no place for the people to dump their refuse,” she added. Residents of Ejigbo, Bariga, Shomolu, Idimu, Ogba and the slums of Ijora Badiya are also counting their losses as flood and refuse have taken over major roads in the areas. Even the highbrow Victoria Island, Ikoyi and Lekki are not spared by the flood. Most of the streets in the business district – Ahmadu Bello Way, Akin Adesola, Idowu Taylor and many others – are usually flooded, resulting in cessation of business activities due to grinding logjam when it rains. Dolphin, a sprawling estate for business and residential purposes, appears to be the worst hit in Ikoyi. Obalende, the popular bus terminal on Lagos Island, and all the nearby streets such as Lewis, Igbosere and Hawley are frequently flooded also. This makes it difficult for workers to leave Lagos for the mainland after the close of work. Tales of flooded houses, loss of property, several hours of traffic jam and streets completely taken over by garbage are now common. Indeed, for Lagos residents, living in this former federal capital are now a harrowing experience. Recently, Osejindu Mordi, an interior decorator who works in Ogba, Ikeja, spent three hours between Lagos State Secretariat and Ketu, a journey that usually takes 30 minutes. He eventually got to his house in Ikorodu at 3am. Tosin, who works with one of the new generation banks on the Island, was perhaps, lucky. On the same day, Ogor Anugor, a sales girl in Tejusho Market, had to trek from Palmgrove to Maryland after spending about four hours in the traffic jam at Fadeyi. Her destination was Ishawo within the Ikorodu axis. However, after each downpour, Lagos, the country’s commercial capital with the slogans “Centre of Excellence” and “City of Aquatic Splendour” turns into a centre of confusion and chaos. However, Lagos is not an isolated case in this regard. For nearly four weeks now, the persistent flood has sacked residents of Denro-Isashi Road, in Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State. Their homes have literarily become swimming pools with commuting becoming a harrowing experience on a daily basis. With the road already submerged by the flood from the river in the area, residents are at the mercy of daring scavengers and other jobless boys, who make brisk business ferrying residents on their backs across the massively flooded portion of the road. Daily, hundreds of commuters who live in the Ogun State border and work in Lagos, usually get stranded for many hours, looking for means to cross the flooded road following the collapse of the wooden bridge temporarily constructed by residents. They are typically left with two options: to be ferried by group of young Hausa cart pushers, who carry them across or be shipped through the flooded road by a group of young boys, who use a damaged refrigerator as canoe. But Lagos and Ogun states have not been alone on this in recent times. Suleja, a town near the capital city, Abuja, equally suffers its own flooding challenge, especially since the last quarter of the year. Heavy rains have reportedly washed houses away and caused others to collapse, while trapping occupants. The seriousness of the flooding has been attributed to a combination of two events: very heavy local rainfall and the release of excess water from the Lagdo Dam in nearby Cameroon. Although the degree and seriousness of flooding in Nigeria fluctuates, it remains a recurring phenomenon in most parts of the country. The first factor aggravating flooding is climate change, which has shown to contribute to more extreme storms and rainfall. Another factor contributing to flooding in cities is that Nigeria has experienced rapid urban growth and planning is poor. Rainfall patterns in Nigeria suggest that rainstorms are getting more intense. Many parts of the country are presently suffering these effects. From what is happening, experts are suggesting that Nigeria needs to take measures to cope with climatic changes. This, according to them, will require both local and international interventions, and could include early warning and rapid response systems, flood data gathering and modelling, proper urban and spatial planning, flood emergency preparedness and political will. The country, they said, can learn from others. For example, in Mumbai, India, various measures have been implemented to reduce the impact of flooding. These have included an emergency control centre, automated weather stations, and removal of solid waste from storm water drains as well as the development of emergency response mechanisms. Nigeria, they added, must invest in these measures, and sustain them. As many are aware, the immediate impacts of flooding include loss of human life, damage to property, destruction of crops, loss of livestock, and deterioration of health conditions owing to waterborne diseases. As communication links and infrastructure such as power plants, roads and bridges are damaged and disrupted, some economic activities may come to a standstill, and people are forced to leave their homes and normal life is disrupted. Similarly, disruption to industry can lead to loss of livelihoods. Damage to infrastructure also causes longterm impacts, such as disruptions to supplies of clean water, wastewater treatment, electricity, transport, communication, education and health care. Loss of livelihoods, reduction in purchasing power and loss of land value in the floodplains can leave communities economically vulnerable. Floods can also traumatise victims and their families for long periods of time. The loss of loved ones has deep impacts, especially on children. Displacement from one’s home, loss of property and disruption to business and social affairs can cause continuing stress, according to medical experts.For some people the psychological impacts can be long lasting. The term “climate change” is often used to refer specifically to anthropogenic climate change (also known as global warming). Anthropogenic climate change is caused by human activity, as opposed to changes in climate that may have resulted as part of Earth’s natural processes. Global warming is projected to have a number of effects on the oceans. Ongoing effects include rising sea levels due to thermal expansion and melting of glaciers and ice sheets, and warming of the ocean surface, leading to increased temperature stratification. It melts the ice and describes changes in the state of the atmosphere over time scales ranging from decades to millions of years. These changes can be caused by processes inside the Earth, forces from outside, for instance, variations in sunlight intensity or, more recently, human activities. This change is an adverse environmental phenomenon that is causing enormous concern all over the world. Nigeria is recognized as being vulnerable to climate change. If left unchecked will cause adverse effects on livelihoods in the country, such as crop production, livestock production, fisheries, forestry and post-harvest activities, because the rainfall regimes and patterns have been altered. Floods which devastate farmlands would occur, increase in temperature and humidity which increases pest and disease would also occur and other natural disasters like ocean and storm surges, which will not only damage Nigerians’ livelihood but also cause harm to life and property. Lagos State government appears to be responded to this challenge though by drawing up model city plans over the last 10 years for a number of areas including, Badagry, Apapa, Lekki, Agege/Ifako-Ijaiye among others, which seeks to transform the entire state to a sprawling garden city metropolis. However, the response may be complicated, in the sense that they could address the increasing volume of rain water brought about by the more intensive storms expected across the state, but may not address the other impacts climate change is expected to bring to the city such as tidal surges, water logging of soil, rising sea levels, sinking, erosion, salinity of the water table, and diseases that would spread in a saturated environment. Not long ago, the Nigerian meteorological agency (NIMET), warned that there would be a high prevalence of climate induced diseases such as malaria, cerebrospinal meningitis, and respiratory diseases in many parts of Nigeria. Most coastal cities are susceptible to flood from rising sea levels and erratic rainfalls, which Lagos is not exempted. It was predicted since 2008, that 3.2 million Lagosians may be exposed to flooding from climate change as a result of rising sea levels, increasing storm intensities and land subsidence, making it the 15th most vulnerable city in the world in terms of all 136 million population of the world port cities. This figures worsened six years later in 2014, and Lagos became the 10th most vulnerable city in the world, and it’s still getting worse. Climate change is principally a major problem caused by the increase of human activities or what expects call human mismanagement of the earth leading to several direct and indirect impacts on health. These have widerange harmful effects including increase in heat-related mortality, dehydration, spread of infectious diseases, malnutrition and damage to public health infrastructure among others.