The days of extra-judicial killings and abuse of human rights may soon be over as the Nigeria Police have announced a major review in the use of firearms by personnel. There have been reports of extra-judicial killings by some police personnel, especially men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). The ugly development had generated both local and international condemnation, with global bodies such as Amnesty International (AI) and Human Rights Watch coming out with damning reports detailing such alleged abuses. But the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu has assured citizens of his commitment towards institutionalising respect for fundamental human rights. Consequently, the IGP has announced the successful review of Force Order (237), which spelt out new rules of engagement, among others on the use of firearms. In the revised order, personnel to be assigned arms, must undergo special training for that purpose, even as there would be yearly assessment and evaluation of such officers to determine the suitability to continue to undertake such task. The new order further introduced the firearms officer, as only armament officers were provided for in the old order. The IGP made the disclosure yesterday at the Force Headquarters in Abuja, at a conference with senior police officers from the rank of Commissioner and above. “Special trainings are being organised for the Special Units of the Police including the Police Mobile Force, Special Forces, Counter-Terrorism Unit, Anti-Robbery detachments, Anti-Kidnapping Squads and the Criminal Investigation Operatives. This is with the intention of equipping them with the right orientation for policing in the 21st Century and to align their operations within the expectations of the law and the citizens.” “In order to situate our vision in this regard to the standards of democratic policing, which is hinged on the protection of fundamental human rights, it is considered expedient that Force Order 237 which defines our Rules of Engagement (RoE) be reviewed, standardised and simplified. “I am delighted to announce that with the support of our local and internal partners, we have successfully completed the process of reviewing the document and today, we shall be formally launching the Revised Force Order 237 (RFO) which is not only comprehensive and modernised but simplified for ease of comprehension by all members of the Force. The launch of the first two thousand (2,000) copies of the document will be undertaken in the course of this meeting,” Adamu said. Meanwhile, the Police Chief has claimed a reduction in the national crime profile in the country. According to Adamu, a total of 1,151 high profile suspects had been arrested in the last two months (August to date). Also within the period under review, the IGP said 228 firearms of various descriptions were recovered across the country. He attributed the development to the effective policing strategies he had emplaced since his emergence. The police chief gave the breakdown as follows: armed robbery suspects (470); kidnap suspects (216); suspected cultists (335); and murder suspects (130).