Troops of the Operation Thunder Strike have rescued the remaining four of the 14 students of Government Day Secondary School, Gwagwada in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State abducted by bandits last Thursday. A community leader in the area said the students were rescued yesterday evening as the bandits were trying to escape with the girls to Niger State. He said the soldiers, who have been patrolling the area, swooped on the kidnappers, leading to the freeing of the four students. On Thursday last week, 14 students of the school were abducted on their way to school, 10 of them were immediately rescued by the troops. The bandits, however, escaped with four students and were demanding a ransom of N2 million for their release. This was as parents of the six female students and two staff of Engravers College, Kakau Daji, who were abducted on October 3, had appealed to the kidnappers to release their children. The appeal came after the parents paid a ransom of N3.6 million, but the children were still being held in captivity by the bandits. Addressing a press conference earlier yesterday in Kaduna, the spokesman for the parents, Mr. Chukwuemeka Adindu, pleaded with the kidnappers to have mercy on them and release their children. Adindu, who denied any involvement of the state government in the release of the children and the two staff of the college, said they had been struggling on their own to secure the release of the children. He said: “As we talk to you, we are left on our own to carry our cross. Since the government pronouncement, nothing has been done to rescue our children. “We have been going up and down, pleading with the kidnappers to see reason with the little effort we have made to release our children to us. “We have been suffering; we have been on our own. The school is a private school not a government-owned school. The state government has not done anything about our plight. “We are, therefore, appealing to the kidnappers to release the students and two staff of Engravers College to us because we are left at the mercy of the kidnappers.”