A call has gone to the Federal Government to rejig the nation’s education curriculum to include the teaching of ‘Change Management’ from basic education level to tertiary institutions. The call was made by the Registrar of the Institute of Change Management (ICM), Mr. Joseph Anetor during the induction of new members into the institute in Lagos. According to him, mere ability to read and write has become gross insufficient to navigate the present age of information technology and artificial intelligence, and therefore, it is important for students to hone their skills to become change agents from the early stage of their education. This was as he noted that change was needed by everyone in order to adapt to the challenges of an ever-changing and complex society, saying the mission of the institute is to build skilled and competent change management specialists, organisations and institutions. Anetor said: “It is also to create value and make a difference across all sectors of the economy, provide the needed support to individuals and corporate organisations. As the saying goes, the only permanent thing in life is change. The world would never stop evolving and changing. “Therefore, the institute will continue the search for the best ways to prepare human and institutional capacities to enable us to take advantage of the benefits of the emerging changes to avoid any attendant risk that may accompany them.” No fewer than a total of 15 new inductees were admitted into the various cadres of membership of the institute. Meanwhile, in his keynote address, entitled: “Leading in a volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity (VUCA) world: The Change Management Imperatives,” Mr. Tayo Ayoola, a management consultant, said the society today was characterised by its volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. He hinted that contemporary society was moving at nearly the speed of lightening which required today’s professionals to keep a step ahead of the unexpected and react in a timely manner; stay on course despite constant surprises and lack of predictability; steer one’s operations through complexity, chaos and confusion and be able to take decisive actions. However, Ayoola urged professionals to think global, but act locally, noting that success in a VUCA world would require setting laudable goals, relying on technology and being flexible, as well as to be adaptive, among others.