A midst apprehension in the country, the Federal Government has assured that there will be no removal of fuel subsidy by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who disclosed this yesterday at a budget defence session with the joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives on Petroleum Resources (downstream), explained that the government will not aggravate the sufferings of Nigerians by increasing the pump price of fuel. The minister said “it was not on the cards” as the removal of fuel subsidy would visit untold hardship on Nigerians. He said: “I want to say today that this government is not about to remove subsidy because it is difficult. We believe, as a government, that our people are already going through a lot of suffering and we cannot, as a responsible government, heap other issue of petroleum price hike or removal of subsidy on Nigerians. “So it is not on the cards at all. We are just looking at how we can manage it.” Already, Minister of Finance, Budget and National planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, has confirmed that oil subsidy regime, also known as under recovery for local consumption of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), is to be sustained in 2020 fiscal year with government earmarking N450 billion for it in the 2020 budget. “We have a provision for under-recovery of PMS in the sum of N450 billion. If you look at the Budget Office website, it is in the fiscal framework, which is an annexure to the budget,” the minister said. Sylva informed that the Federal Government was making efforts to revive all refineries before 2023, assuring that the Port Harcourt Refinery would resume production in January 2020, while work is on-going on Warri and Kaduna refineries, which are billed to resume later in the same year. He also assured that work on the Port Harcourt Refinery would commence in January next year, adding that talks have reached advanced stage for Warri Refinery to follow suit within the same period. On the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) natural gas pipeline project, he said notwithstanding experience in the hands of the Chinese government over conditionality before funding the project, he assured that the problem would be resolved next year. He also disclosed that government has no capacity to offset the $62 billion outstanding debt on premium motor spirit (PMS) as well as the $9.6 billion judgement debt to Process & Industrial Developments Limited (PI&D). According to him, “If there is a law and you are sleeping and wake up today to say they must pay $62 billion, I will say sorry. No company will have $62 billion sleeping somewhere. $62 billion is a whole lot of money and I don’t think we could get $62 billion, but we can discuss with them. “In the process, we are amending the Deep Shore Act now. And why are we amending it? It is to be able to ameliorate some of these lacunas so that going forward, we will not miss some of these opportunities again,” the minister told the lawmakers. On the $9.6 billion P&ID judgement, the minister described the whole process as “fraudulent”, insisting that Nigerian government will not pay the money. He said if pre-emptive measures had been taken in the past, the matter would not have occurred, saying “we are fighting it and I believe in the end, we will triumph. We will not pay that money they are asking for because it is fraudulent.” While speaking on the high level of oil theft, the minister assured that the ministry, in collaboration with security agencies, are working towards curtailing the menace which costs the country billions of naira on daily basis. The minister claimed that the decision to shut the country’s borders is already yielding dividends as daily fuel consumption in the polity has reduced from over 60 million litres to about 52 million litres per day. He absolved the ministry of the alarming level of crude oil theft in the country.