Chief Willy Ezugwu is the Secretary General of Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) as well as Convener of South-East Renewal Group (SERG). He speaks in this interview with Felix Nwaneri on the state of infrastructure in the South-East zone, among other issues    What do you make of the call by South-East leaders for speedy completion of the Enugu International airport and rehabilitation of federal roads in the zone during their recent meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari? I am particularly worried about the closure of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport for repairs without any work done, weeks after it was shut down. But, I will advise the Igbo not to put the blame of the poor federal roads and dilapidated federal infrastructures or its absence in the South-East on the Muhammadu Buhari administration. Rather, we should look inwards and ask questions. Many of our sons and daughters, who represented the South-East in the cabinets of late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and former President Goodluck Jonathan and our elected representatives from 2007 to 2015, who were positioned to change the underdevelopment fortunes of the South-East never lived up to expectations of the people. They saw the opportunity to serve as a means to an end and chose to serve their pockets rather than the people of the zone. For instance, the closure of the only international airport in the South-East for repairs, even without budgetary allocation as reported in the media, cannot be blamed on President Buhari. Most of your kinsmen are likely to disagree with you on this position given that buck stops on the President’s table… If our sons and daughters, who supervised the shoddy execution of the upgrade of the Enugu Airport to an international airport, were not compromised and ensured standards were met, the Federal Government would not have had any reason to close the airport. Yes, we are worried that the airport was closed since August 24 and actual repair work of its runway and general rehabilitation is yet to commence. Yes, we kick because of the very terrible state of federal roads in the entire South-East. But, in all honesty, President Buhari cannot be blamed for our squandered opportunity to develop our region. It is instructive to note that in the case of the poor execution of the upgrade of the Enugu Airport to international airport, several Igbo sons daughters were in government then. But, they failed to use the opportunity they had to ensure development of the South-East because some of them had interests that clearly undermined the development of our region. I totally agree with the chairman House Committee on Aviation, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji that if the Enugu Airport runway collapsed under six years to warrant repairs, some people, including the contactors, should have explanations to give to Nigerians because as he rightly observed, a standard runway should have a lifespan of 30 years. What exactly would you advise the Federal Government to do in this regard? I call on the Federal Government to ensure that explanations are given even as we are compiling roles every appointed or elected representative from the South-East played in numerous contracts, including the runway and roads, which led to the underdevelopment of our region, and we will be forwarding same to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for appropriate action. My group, South East Revival Group (SERG) will petition the anti-graft agency over alleged roles some Igbo leaders, who served the country during the late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan administrations, including elected representatives of the zone at the National Assembly, played in contract awards and execution within the period. The Federal Government wants to return toll gates on federal highways, what do you make of the proposal? It is shameful and insensitive for the Federal Government to even contemplate reintroduction of toll gates on any Nigerian road, let alone announcing it. So, I will advise President Buhari not to allow himself to be hoodwinked by some individuals, who do not mean well for the country. But, the argument by the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, was that there is no law that stopped government from having toll gates on federal roads… The Federal Government may be provoking the South-East zone in particular, if that part of the country is included in such an unthinkable adventure like toll collecting from citizens in such a neglected region. In a country where the welfare of citizens is a top priority, such proposal would have been considered a taboo. At the moment, there are several unofficial toll gates across the South-East region at roadblocks mounted by the police, customs and other security agencies and they are currently extorting motorists day and night with impunity. We believe that some interested individuals are trying very hard to deceive Mr. President into their toll gate business. Toll collection concession has always been a big business for looters who hide in the guise of raising money for road maintenance to corner resources of the country. It is unfortunate that after increasing fuel pump price by nearly 100 per cent in 2015, virtually every federal road in the country, particularly in Southern Nigeria, is in gross disrepair. The South-East has the highest number of dilapidated federal roads. States in the zone are so literarily disconnected from each other due to the poor conditions of federal roads, so toll gates would be the highest level of provocation of the people. I will advise the Federal Government to be more innovative in solving the age-long problem of road maintenance as toll gate is not an option. How about the telecoms tax meant to replace the proposed 2.5 percentage increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT)? The bill tagged “Communication Service Tax Bill, 2019” being sponsored by former Senate Leader, Senator Ali Ndume, is a lesser evil compared to the impact of a 2.5 percent increase in VAT, which will raise payable VAT to 7.5 percent. I belong to the Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP) and our position on the bill proposing levy on electronic communication services like voice calls, SMS, MMS, Data usage and Pay per View TV stations is a lesser evil. The impact on the ordinary citizens will be less burdensome than the proposed 7.5 percent VAT the Federal Government wants to slam on the already impoverished masses of Nigeria. We totally agree with Senator Ndume that the bill would rather enhance distribution of wealth, where ordinary Nigerians would benefit than impoverish the masses the more as VAT increment will not only affect the economy negatively, but will further reduce the purchasing power of the poorest of Nigerians. Former governor of Imo State and senator representing Imo West at the National Assembly, Rochas Okorocha, recently called for a reduction in the number of senators representing each state from three to one? Senator Okorocha said nothing but the truth, when he canvassed that one senator is enough to represent a state at the legislative chamber.  Like he said, is there anything too sacrosanct about what senators and House of Representatives members do that only a senator per state cannot do? I will urge Okorocha to urgently sponsor a bill for the amendment of relevant sections of the constitution in line with his thoughts to conserve funds for capital projects to the benefit of poor Nigerians. 