The House of Representatives has passed for second reading, the 2020 appropriation bill, which was presented by President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday. At a session presided by the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, the House has also suspended plenary for three weeks till October 29, to allow standing committees interface with Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in budget defence. Supporting the bill at yesterday’s plenary, chairman of the Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Hon. Benjamin Kalu (APC, Abia), commended the President for projections, adding that “but that will not be right without speaking on the timing of the budget.” He said the 2020 budget projections look good for the private sector explaining that “It helps the private sector to plan, as they know the direction the policy is going, I commend them, but we cannot discuss 2020 without discussing 2019.” According to him, the new tax regime proposed by the budget was in the right direction. He said: “One of the man things is the digitisation of tax collection. Over the years, it has been difficult to meet our tax target, but the current budget is proposing a new tax burden. What this does to an emerging economy is that activities are reduced which causes unemployment and low productivity, which is like a cycle that will continue unless there is a paradigm shift.” In his contribution, Hon. Dan Asuquo (PDP, Akwa Ibom) expressed dismay that details of the budget were not available to enable members make informed debate on the Appropriation Bill. He said: “I am commenting on the speech and the intention of the executive for 2020. I don’t have the details yet. I cannot speak about the budget I don’t have the details. I will address my people when the details of the budget come.” Hon. Toby Okechukwu (PDP, Enugu), in his contribution, expressed delight over the timely presentation of the budget proposal saying “that this is one of the times that budget is brought in early.” He, however, queried the huge amount of money earmarked for debt servicing arguing that no nation can survive with such an economic policy. “The capital expenditure has been reduced from 2019, the debt servicing of 2.8trillion. There is no country that can make progress with this. Health budget is N48 billion. How can we make progress? This time, we are putting the cart before the horse,” he said. Okechukwu also picked holes in the tax policy, insisting that with such a proposal, the budget cannot work. “Nigerians are burdened with so much tax; I believe the budget will not work. I believe the money bill should have been brought before this. I was House committee chairman for works; I stated that the commitment of the Ministry is N4 trillion of contracts awarded. Any belief that the country will move forward with this budget is a mirage,” he said. Chairman of the House committee on aviation, Hon. Nnaji Nnoli, (PDP, Enugu) said his main concern was the aviation sector. According to him, “our airports are our gateway, I believe our airport should be given attention, I do not believe that our aviation is getting enough. I believe that if we can consolidate the 25 per cent of revenue generated by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to the Federal Government that will help the airports. We can have a 10 years plan for the funds to be used by FAAN. We can develop our airport.” Hon. Ken Chikere, on his part, emphasized the need for an accurate population figure to enable it generate the necessary data and statistics for proper budgeting system, arguing that what is need is to ensure proper implementation of the 2020 budget, when it is eventually passed. “I plead with the House to see there is proper implementation of the budget. It is our duty now to look at those estimates and come up with a budget. We should be mindful of the implementation of the budget. Lack of implementation is illegal. This country as presently constituted cannot make any progress unless the senate and the house come together. “We cannot make progress if we don’t know how many we are. We must not be shy in discussing how many we are. We are unproductive 200 million. I am not one of those who are carried away by 200 million population. “I think this budget should be inclusive. Take the case of Rivers State for instance; there is no single federal government project there. We have a state that is not included in the projects. Our budget should also look at the issue of unemployment, insecurity and general infrastructure”, Chikere stated.