At independence from colonial rule, Nigeria held the hope of black renaissance. But almost six decades after the British Union Jack was lowered for the Green-White-Green, the optimism that the nation would stamp its feet in the comity of nations in a record time still remains a mirage. FELIX NWANERI reports   It was high hope for Nigeria at independence on October 1, 1960. For the country’s founding fathers and the citizenry then, it was freedom at a great cost. But it is still unfilled dreams, leaving many to wonder if Nigeria’s independence is not freedom mismanaged. With an area of over 923,773 square kilometers, the largest single geographical unit along the west coast of Africa and the largest population in Africa, Nigeria, perhaps has the most envious economic profile in African. The nation is the leading producer of crude oil and gas in the continent and 6th in the world. But, 59 years down the line, Nigeria remains a land of poverty and violence despite her huge potential. This, many believe, was made possible, mainly by ineffective leadership, unbridled corruption and nepotism, which have in turn, forced the over 300 ethnic nationalities that make up the country to continue to lose interest in the union. With a few exceptions, Nigeria has been struck by a string of incompetent leaders who have only succeeded in running the country aground, while less endowed nations that got independence the same time with her, continue to make giant strides. Faulty structure has also been blamed for the country’s woes. Though Nigeria’s fragmentation predates independence given her over 300 ethnic groups, efforts by successive administrations to cement the crack among these nationalities have not yielded the desired result. The unitary constitution/system of government presently in place under the guise of a federal system has not also helped matters. This explains persistent calls for restructuring to address issues of autonomy for the states; fiscal federalism that will pave the way for resource control by the states; equality of states and local governments among the six geo-political zones; state police and indigeneship question, among others. Agitators of restructuring insist that only such will sustain the present composition of the Nigerian state, which is gradually drifting towards disintegration. They also argue that a re-tooling of the Nigerian federalism by tinkering with items on the Exclusive and Concurrent legislative lists as contained in the 1999 Constitution (as amended), is indisputable, as the centralised federal system of government presently in operation has failed the nation. Besides political structure, the North/South dichotomy has also contributed to draw Nigeria back. It is evident that is despite efforts of the country’s founding fathers – Herbert Macaulay, Nnamdi Azikiwe, Obafemi Awolowo, Ahmadu Bello and Abubakar-Tafawa Balewa to foster unity among the people, there still exists a big gulf between the north and southern parts of the country. Citizens along the two divides have continued to view each other with suspicion. The respective regions, at some times in the country’s history, had used threats of secession to extract concessions from the Federal Government. In 1950, the North threatened to secede if it was not granted equal representation with the South in the legislative council. In 1953, the West also threatened to secede over revenue allocation and making of Lagos the Federal Capital Territory. In 1967, the East (now the South-East and South-South) declared the Republic of Biafra in line with the tradition of using threat of secession as a political instrument. Unfortunately, the nation paid dearly for the civil war that ensued. Despite the over three million lives that were lost during the 30-month old war, some Nigerians are still adopting secessionist approach to national issues at the slightest provocation. Often times there have been calls for disintegration. But, a recurring question over the years is: Will balkanization solve the country’s problems? Most stakeholders believe it will not as every region is a miniature of Nigeria with the same contending variables. On the issue of corruption, there is no doubt that systemic and entrenched graft has continued to hold Nigeria back since independence. Sadly, the nation’s laws have not recognised the cankerworm for what it is. Corruption is closely linked to the leadership question, and explains why successive Nigerian leaders failed to see headship as all about service, sacrifice and making positive impact on the people, rather than a means of amassing wealth. Nigeria has equally in the past 59 years witnessed flawed electoral processes. To say that it has been a gradual descent down the hill since independence would not be far from the truth as the electoral process over time has been characterised by manipulation and violence. To remedy the situation, many have persistently called for an electoral reform process that will revolutionise and overhaul the system to make it yield to the basic tenets of democracy. The response from the government over time, however, has not been encouraging given indifference to implement the various reports of several electoral reform panels set up in the past, particularly the Justice Mohammed Uwais Electoral Reform Panel. The panel, among others had recommended for the establishment of an Electoral Offences Tribunal to be saddled with the responsibility of prosecuting electoral offenders, so that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) can concentrate its energy on conducting elections professionally and competently. Worse still, is the poverty in the midst of plenty situation, which most Nigerians have found themselves. About 112.5 million out of the country’s estimated 180 million population live in relative poverty conditions, as successive governments merely engaged in glorifying poverty alleviation programmes. The poverty situation is compounded by worsening insecurity, particularly insurgency, farmers/herders clashes, kidnapping and banditry presently ravaging the country. Despite the myriads of problems, Nigeria has made appreciable progress in some facets of life in the last 59 years. But, against the backdrop that most past leaders failed to demonstrate ability to comprehend the nation’s problems, the consensus of some stakeholders, who spoke with New Telegraph is that Nigeria is presently at a point that calls for turning things around with a new generation of leaders, and that the citizenry must not allow the old variables to continue to bug them down.