Chief Olabode George is a former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with WALE ELEGBEDE, he speaks on the state of the nation, the need to fix the country’s constitution, among other salient issues  Why are you so passionate about happenings in the country? My passion for the country could be traced to when I was on a regimental assignment in Akure. That was about 30 years ago. That means I was in my forties; it means I became a governor at 42. Former Head of State, General Ibrahim Babangida, once told me not to rush into decisions and that I should speak when it is appropriate. That is when there is enough information to back my position. Given all that happened one can only look back. Now that I am in politics, I am ready to challenge and speak my mind, when it has to do with the overall interest of Nigerians. We participated in the National Conference and the report is still there, packed into one corner. The effect of the abandonment of the report is the emergence of discordant voices clamouring for zoning and things like that. What is happening was seen long ago. That was why when G13, G14, and G18 emerged, prior to the coming of the PDP, arrangements were made to accommodate them. It was as a result of their understanding, to avoid what happened during First Republic that they came up with the arrangement. Otherwise, how could you imagine the late Chief Bola Ige, Chief Alex Ekwueme or Chief Jim Nwobodo, Alhaji Adamu Ciroma, Alhaji Abubakar Rimi or Alhaji Bamaga Tukur, from different political parties, can come together without the understanding? That was when they came up with zoning. This, of course, is not in the constitution, but it was adopted to solve the problem. So, what are they talking about? Turn by turn Nigeria limited. That was what we did and ended up having zoning. I am only voicing out my experience, having participated in the military, civil organisations, and political parties. Now, you are about to have eight years from the North and some young Turks are saying we should discard zoning. That it is not in the constitution. On the issue of zoning, let us take it easy. Why are the youths disenchanted about the election, compared to India that recently achieved 80 per cent voting record? In Nigeria, on the day of the election, the youths are usually engaged in fighting or doing what has no electoral value. So, when election results are announced, it is poor compared to the population we have. This nation is blessed with human resources all over, but what is the future for them? What do you expect in a system where we have electoral violence? Will there be good result? Today, the young boys are carried away by irrelevant things and issues that cannot add value to the betterment of the country. What is your take on the proposal that one state should be represented by one senator? You cannot achieve this by fiat. What about the uneven number in the House of Representatives? Some mistakes had been carried out by the military on the political scene. Look at the local government, do an assessment and see whether the councils have been fairly spread. Today, Kano has 44 local governments. So, it is not about having one senator per state, what about members of the House of Representatives? Does one senator per state solve the imbalance in the polity? Kano has 44 councils and Jigawa was cut out of Kano with over 20 councils. Kastina has over 20 and Niger too, with its large councils. How did I know? When we go for party national conventions, the moment they call out Kano, Niger, Katsina delegates, be assured that the election is won on the side they stand. What about Lagos or is it about land? Look at the number of people in Lagos, it is busting with people. And there is no Nigerian tribe known that does not reside in Lagos. We must tell ourselves the truth because one day we will die. We will go naked because we came with nothing. You called for the scrapping of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Is INEC the problem? What about the political class? The judiciary is also a disgrace. I am not a lawyer and even from my ignorance, I know that people voted. They challenged electoral frauds before the judiciary on the result. You look at them and award the victory on technical ground. Again, when you understand that the judiciary should decide the winner of election, why do you bother people to vote in the first place? What is the essence of people queuing up for the election? I want to be educated on the matter. The judicial officers are now the returning officers. They determine who becomes governor, members of House of Representatives, senators etc. What is your position on border closure? Maybe we should draw from President Donald Trump’s example of building protective walls. What is good for the goose is equally good for the gander. If Nigeria wants to close all her borders and you have just an entry point, that is fine. But, this porous nonsense, when people just get in and get out, is not helping the matter. And maybe for security purposes, the border can be closed. They say civil servants are the most corrupt. Do you agree? Civil servants cannot give approval without the consent of their bosses. So, don’t blame them. Let me illustrate with INEC. You put human beings in between the election process. Once you finish from the polling units, results are written and by the time you get to the next collation centre, they would have tampered with them. Some stronger youths prevent those who want to verify whether what was sent is still intact. They will tell you that agents will do whatever you complain about. They use all kinds of force, including police, to prevent you from moving in. So, looking at what the civil servants are capable of doing, don’t blame them. They see what you do and copy your example. You tell them to come to work at 8 am, they will be there and you don’t show up until 1 pm, they will follow your example. So, don’t blame them The structural and constitutional arrangement of Nigeria has been a point of reference anytime the system of government is being put in the spotlight. What is your take on this? When we had the constitutional conference recently during Goodluck Jonathan’s time, some people said let us go back to the regional government the way it used to be, I said that is just impossible because you can’t tell an Ekiti man that he is going back to Ondo State or tell a man from Ogun State that he is going back to Ibadan, you will see hell. So, I said let us accept the federated states of Nigeria as the moderating states and units. But the Federal Government needs to hands up quite a number thing it is holding at the centre, especially internally policing. In the United States (U.S.), you have a state like California, the biggest and the  sixth-largest economy in the world but it is part of America. The President of that country, Trump, knows that there are limits and he can’t just grab that governor and shortchange him on what is due to the state. You also have a state like Maine in the North East, the smallest and last state before you get to Canada, they exist. Its not aggregated that every month end they will send their income to Washington DC. But this is not the case in Nigeria where we purportedly borrowed the presidential system from the U.S. One major issue is that our constitution is defective and flawed. Why should the resources be sent into one basket in Abuja and you now start sorting it out? Who decides on those local governments that are the basis for the sharing of these resources? They are fixed and to change it now in the constitution is now hell. Look at Lagos State, we have only 20 local governments, so whatever money they are distributing, only 20 comes here. The state generates about 80 per cent but what comes back here after the redistribution is about 11 per cent. The oil states have also been shouting. We should start to make every state to survive on their resources. In the South-West, there are some states that cannot afford to pay salaries. But there is no part of this country without natural resources that grow their states. But this one that we wait for 30 days to distribute money using the same parameters that refused to change over the years. We have a lot of things covered now. The other one is the process of getting our people elected. No matter any arrangement we keep making, if we don’t scrap INEC, sack everybody there and start all over again, so that there would be minimal human input during our electoral process, we are wasting our time. No matter the system we adopt, it won’t work with the presently constituted INEC. Look at India, 800million people voted and there was no tribunal issue. But here, almost all the elections went to the tribunal and its now the judiciary determining who is the governor, lawmaker and others. So, why are you bordering us to go and line up when you know that judiciary will eventually determine the winner of the election? How can an election umpire say it doesn’t use a server in the 21st century? But everyone uses data processing in our different bank accounts. Why are we lying to ourselves? Buhari should sack the INEC and ensure that the system is full-proof. These are the areas that I feel are very problematic.