The Federal Government yesterday said over 12.85 million Nigerians are presently benefiting from its various Social Investment Programmes (SIPs). The scheme was introduced by the current administration in 2016. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouk, disclosed this at the launch of a toll-free line to checkmate corruption and truancy in the school feeding and NPower schemes of the Federal Government. The programme is jointly being pursued by the NSIO and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to rid Nigeria of sharp practices. According to Farouq, the renewed partnership is a collaboration against those who want to sabotage the effort of the Federal Government in reducing extreme poverty. She said: “I am pleased to say that all these programmes have recorded resounding successes, directly impacting the lives of over 12 million Nigerians, with several millions of indirect beneficiaries, whose living standards have significantly improved through the value chain created by the various Social Protection Initiatives. “On their individual level, there are over 548,000 graduate and non-graduate beneficiaries under the NPower; while Home-Grown School Feeding Programme has over 9.8 million ben-eficiaries; Government Enterprise & Empowerment Programme (GEEP) being coordinated by the Bank of Industry (BoI), has over 2.1 million beneficiaries from TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni; and Conditional Cash Transfer initiative has almost 400,000 beneficiaries.” While noting that the poverty rate in Nigeria was almost suffocating, the minister said reports have it that over 120 million people would be living in extreme poverty in Nigeria by the year 2030. “The National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) was set up in 2016 to coordinate and supervise all components of the social protection programme namely the National Home Grown School Feeding Pro-gramme (NHGSFP), Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), N-Power and the National Cash Transfer Programme (NCTP). “To achieve the task of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in 10 years in line with Mr. President’s directive, we must as a ministry ensure that all our poverty alleviation strategies and programmes remained strengthened and devoid of infractions that could undermine ongoing efforts to empower our poor and vulnerable citizens. “This is why this collaborative engagement between NSIO and ICPC is crucial as it aims to prevent and eliminate third party corruption in the National Social Investment Programme N-SIP,” she said.