The  Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), recently took their charitable works to the New Kuchingoro IDP camp  where they celebrated Nigeria’s 59th Independence Anniversary  with the  over  2000 inmates . REGINA OTOKPA reports  The Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp at New Kuchigoro, was  a beehive of activity last Tuesday as the  large settlement  became  a sprawling business hub hosting boutiques, salons, restaurants, food stalls, provision stores, petty trading, tailoring shops and phone shops. Visitors to the IDP camp were impressed with the  way many of the inmates of the camp  chose  to engage themselves in small scale  businesses  rather than waiting  for philanthropic gestures from government, organisations and individuals. However, occupants of the camp are hygienically poor; they indulge in practices harmful to their health such as open defecation, indiscriminate dumping of refuse around the camp, consumption of food and edibles not properly protected from flies and other bacteria carrying agents. Chairman of the IDP camp, Mr. Philemon Emmanuel, said that majority of people living in the camp were forced to defecate in nearby bushes because the toilets they had were far from enough or because they didn’t have N30 to access the other bathrooms and toilets. The IDPs also try to minimise usage of water as a Jerry can costs N30. It’s obvious they do not wash their hands properly among other important practices that requires water. As expected with such poor sanitary environments, a good number of the IDPs have been falling ill. Unfortunately, they find it difficult accessing treatment from the Abuja National hospital which they are attached too. Narrating a nasty experience, Emmanuel told Inside Abuja that a patient he took to the National hospital on a fateful morning was not attended to till 10pm. He later died few hours later at about 2 am. “Two years ago, the national commissioner for refugees came here and assigned us to the National Hospital for treatment but we have to collect a letter from the office first.  I went there twice with our patient but the people in the National Hospital do not want to treat our people. They kept posting us here and there. “We have asked to be assigned to any of the general hospitals because they attend to us but since they changed the minister, that has not been working again.” Worried over the poor sanitation and hygiene practices by the IDPs, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Lagos Province 4, Apapa family, came all the way to Abuja, to build eight additional toilets, a borehole and free health care services to the IDPs numbering over 2,000. Celebrating this year’s independence day at the IDP camp where a medical outreach was carried out, the projects were commissioned and the foundation for a block of classrooms was laid. Pastor in Charge of Province RCCG Lagos Province 4 (LP4), Oghogho Ayanru, said the outreach was aimed at giving the IDPs a sense of belonging in what he described as “the Nigerian Project.” “Sometimes in life, you feel left out and we just thought to assist this people and show them the love and kindness of God. Government is doing the best they can and our prayer is that God should enable them and others who have the means to do more.” Excited with the free health services from a team of doctors, pharmacists, laboratory scientists, the IDPs came out in their numbers. Unfortunately, the medical team could not give the necessary treatment to the overwhelming crowd. The medical team leader, Dr. Edache John, said there were several recorded cases of discolouration of the eyes, difficulty in urination, malaria parasite infections as well as minor bacteria infections among the IDPs. “Possibly from the look of the environment and the way their water and other things they ingest into themselves is handled, there is a lot of public health concerns here. The number of issues here today, the medications we have cannot take care of them but we do more on counselling especially in the line of hygiene and probably identify the most difficult ones and refer them to a nearby hospital or clinic where they can be treated. “You need to wash your hands regularly to be very clean, take care of your environment. Refuse should be dumped in certain places and not all over your houses. Very importantly, take good water that is boiled and properly covered; ensure all foods are well cooked and covered properly to prevent germs entering inside. “When we fail to do all these things, we begin to notice high fever, stomach pain, headaches, stooling, vomiting as they have witnessed recently.” Expressing concerns over the population explosion at the camp, he encouraged parents to ensure their children were properly spaced by considering the available family planning methods to curb the high number of children born at the IDP camp on annual basis. But there is a challenge; the persons referred by the medical team for extensive treatment might not have the resources to do that and with the attitude of the National Hospital, where they are assigned to for free treatment, their health cases could get worse. To this end, John appealed to health facilities to honour the RCCG prescriptions, even as he called on government to sincerely work with this church and other group of people or organisations to establish a health facility around the camp. “That they are in an IDP is not their making. However, their health is a thing of concern to us and we call on other churches. NGOs and groups to come in and help the situation on ground, he added.” Also speaking to Inside Abuja, the Assistant Pastor in charge of Province Corporate Social Responsibility LP4, Supo Oluwasakin, explained that the RCCG was committed to making an impact in every community by alleviating the suffering of the masses. He explained that through its contributions, the church has set up some intensive care units in Jos, Lagos and at the RCCG Redemption Camp in Ogun State. In addition, the church embarks on medical outreaches during Easter, Christmas and during its special evangelical programme called ‘Let’s Go a Fishing’. “It’s something we have been doing over the years but we have taken it upon ourselves more so in this times that we see that a lot of people are suffering the more, to see how much God can help us to alleviate the suffering of the people.” Indeed, the IDPs, who have been making their way to Abuja since 2014 to escape the onslaught of Boko Haram in the Northeast, are suffering. Expressing appreciation on behalf of the camp to the RCCG LP4, the camp chairman gave assurances that the toilets and borehole will be maintained from the collection of a user fee of N5. He however appealed to the government, organisations or individuals to assist them in securing electricity connection to enable the camp eliminate the user fee on water saying “if want to get connected with NEPA light so, we won’t use generator to pump water again because it has not been easy maintaining the generator since we are not working.”