W ives of prominent political leaders usually take on projects to give succour to different causes and people in their society. The most prominent of wives who took up such pet projects was Lady Bird Johnson, wife of former US President Lyndon Johnson. She was a remarkable advocate for beautifying the nation’s cities and highways for she strongly espoused that: “where flowers bloom, so does hope”.   The ‘Highway Beautification’ Act was informally known as “Lady Bird’s Bill.” Former President George Bush had said that he always remembered the former First Lady every time he drove from Houston to the Presidential Library in College Station and marvelled at the countryside’s wildflowers. Her legacy, he said, “is in full glory in the springtime…she made the world beautiful in so many ways.”   US Secretary of the Interior during Johnson’s administration submits that “Lady Bird Johnson did more than plant flowers in public places…she served the country superbly by planting environmental values in the minds of the nation’s leaders and citizens.” Indeed, her legacy lives on.   Martha Udom Emmanuel and FEYREP Back home in Nigeria, to complement her husband’s economic renaissance and industrialization agenda, Martha Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has taken to heart a pet project; a cause against one of society’s greatest ills.  Through her pet project, Family Empowerment and Youth Reorientation Program (FEYREP), there has been empowerment of women in the 31 local government council areas of the state. The catalogue of things done is impressive:   Care for hundreds of orphans and less privileged children in the 5 Government Homes; provision of N200,000 grant each for about 500 women organisations across the 31 LGAs to enable them leverage on the public-partnership initiative of the State Government; provision of grants each and wrappers for about 600 widows across the 31 LGAs to boost their businesses and alleviate poverty; donation of over 200 wheel chairs and 100 special writing desks for physical challenged persons in tertiary institutions and secondary schools; the training of 20 visually impaired persons in different skills at the Nigerian Farm Craft Centre, Lagos and subsequent empowerment for them to start up their business in the development trade learnt; sponsorship of 155 widows to Jerusalem for pilgrimage.  Seaside communities have had seafood processing factories built. There are also, ultra-modern (FEYREP) Cassava Processing and Oil Palm Processing. The First Lady is all about empowering women. She believes in stabilizing the home front because an unstable marriage can lead to a broken home. Such break ups is often traceable to the inability of the woman to make financial contribution towards the children and development of the family. Mrs. Emmanuel has been working to ensure that women are empowered to support their husband.   Hundreds of expectant mothers from the 31 local government areas of the state have benefited from her free medical care and baby packages.   The programme is tagged: “Pregnancy, Child Birth and Beyond”. A good number of indigenes have been sponsored to India for surgeries and in collaboration with the MTN Foundation, many blind are now seeing. More importantly, houses have been built for widows and widowers. A striking picture is seen on the internet of a widow with her two hands lifted up in joy, while standing with her two young daughters before their newly constructed house, built for them by Lady Martha Emmanuel.   Martha Emmanuel strikes one as a humble individual having a calming influence on whoever comes around her. She grew up seeing her parents’ philanthropic nature of training a good number of people, who are all successful today. As the daughter of a university professor, she exhibits those refined feminine qualities that represent true home training.  Her poise and admirable demeanour is in clear contrast with that of a high-ranking female government official who recently, was seen using ‘beer parlour’ language during a live television broadcast. And despite entreaties that such uncouth language is not permitted, she dug her feet down and persisted in the ways of motor park touts.  It is not uncommon to see women in high offices of the land lose it and exhibit those traits that decent and refined women find revolting. There are, however, still a few women who continue to hold high the flag of real womanhood; unspoiled by the murky terrains of position and authority. Lady Martha Emmanuel is one of such individuals.  FEYREP and combating the scourge of rape Martha Emmanuel has also demonstrated her passionate fight against the morbid crime of rape. Although rape has almost become an official instrument of war, the continuous degeneration of the civil society into this horrible malaise has agitated her spirit. She has constantly been outspoken about the exposure of those caught in this heinous act to the public. Consider her words:   “The menace of gender-based violence is a cause for concern to everyone. And why it is so worrisome is because the people they are defiling are babies, toddlers of two years, three years, four years, six years. These are the age range we are seeing these days. And by the grace of God, through the sensitization we have been carrying out, people have been reporting such cases and the culprits are being prosecuted. That is the good thing about it. It is so bad. What we intend to do now is that we don’t want to hide these people anymore. Before now when they are caught, we take them to court, prosecute them. Now, we want to expose them to the world so that other people will learn from it. You people (the media) will help us publish their names, show them on television, tell where they come from, and tell the world what they have done. We are not going to hide them anymore because the menace is getting out of hand. If you happen to see one of the victims you will cry.”   FEYREP has partnered with the United Nations Population Fund (UNPF) to establish a Gender-Based Violence Centre in the state to temporarily cater for abused persons until they are sorted out.  She said: “You cannot eradicate crime, but you can reduce the level. I don’t know why a man will rape a six-year-old girl; I don’t know why a man will rape a three-year-old girl. I don’t know why a man with four wives will rape a nine-year-old girl. These are people that have children; some have grandchildren. Why do you defile a young girl? What pleasure are you looking for?”  Martha Udom Emmanuel by her message is saying: “What gives you the right to do what you want with her body? How dare you try to take away value of her body? You made her feel worthless, small and unimportant, like an object. You will not only be jailed, you will be shamed forever. You couldn’t even respect a woman and I’m speaking out to get society to know you so as to spare the next girl who not only can get STD or get pregnant, you will damage her mentally; women who are actually young and cautious.”  There is a consensus that not enough people understand how heinous rape is. In America, there is the National Sexual Assault Hotline and the National Domestic Violence Hotline. Martha Emmanuel’s FEYREP has created a Nigerian Hotline. Apparently, some men feel so entitled to women that they will not accept no as an answer. Some men feel that they can take what they want by force – and because of rape culture, it’s reinforced that it’s the victim’s fault. Some feel it’s not really rape because the woman was wearing a revealing outfit.   Until recently, available evidences suggest that rapists may also be motivated by the likelihood that their victims will not report the assault. By virtue of being a rape victim, a woman becomes the perceived agent of her family’s shame. In a bizarre twist, she changes from a victim into a guilty party, responsible for bringing dishonour upon her family or community. As a result, female victims, whether for fear of being seen this way, or because they see themselves this way, are extremely reluctant to report rape. The shame of rape may prevent women, who would rather bury their dishonour, from seeking justice.   Only an improved awareness of the criminal act of a rapist will help women to resist the embarrassment attached to such an act and go for exposing their attacker. It is essential that efforts to achieve this are increased so that what has been trivialized in the past is stopped. In a nutshell, Martha Udom’s efforts through her pet project, FAYREP, at curbing rape and sexual violence against women has yielded a lot of results. Such a cause being taken by high government personnel has instilled not only the fear of prosecution but also the dread of public shaming in would-be culprits.