Following the sex-for-grades investigation by BBC where some UNILAG lecturers were caught on tape sexually harassing the broadcaster’s undercover reporter who posed as a student seeking admission, students of higher institutions in the country have expressed happiness with efforts to expose lecturers involved in such scandalous activities. A 200 level Mass Communication student of Olabisi Onabanjo University, Lucy Emenike, stated that it was a right move to rid the ivory towers of the menace of sexual exploitation of students by lecturers.  She told Saturday Telegraph: “I feel it is a great step and they shouldn’t relent in fishing out lecturers involved in sexual immorality and harassment of their students because it’s something that happens in every university.”  Emenike who said she had not experienced such harassment however advised students to: “No, I haven’t experienced that and I don’t wish to but my advice to students is that they should avoid indecent dressing and be prayerful at all times.” Similarly, a 200 level Medical student of OOU, Feyi Shobowale, noted that the issue is rapidly becoming widespread in the country.   “The issue of sex-for-grades is something that is becoming rampant in Nigerian universities, and it a good thing that it is really being exposed now.  However, we need to consider the fact that there are two sides to a coin. But I also want to advise students to do the right thing; they should study hard and if they are approached by lecturers they should report to the school authorities,” she said.  Another student, Okonji Judith, of Biochemistry of the same school, also agreed that it is a good thing that lectures are being exposed. “It a good thing the issue of sex-for-grades is being brought to light; there are a lot of people in this situation and I’m happy Africa is watching. But I also think that students should watch the way they dress.  Although I must add that many lecturers are perverts and would still make moves towards students regardless of how decent they dress. Another thing is, if a student is in that position, they should report to people,” Okonji, a 300 level student, stated.