As the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship elections come up on November 16, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman Professor Mahmood Yakubu has warned that anybody that attacks any of his officials shall be thoroughly dealt with. Speaking on Thursday in Yenagoa during a stakeholders meeting, the INEC Chairman advised all the governorship candidates to conduct themselves and their supporters in a proper manner in order to ensure a violence free and credible election. He said: “Let me remind candidates and their supporters that attacks on commission officials at the polling units or through the collation processes will this time attract sanctions. “We will not tolerate attacks on INEC officials to force them make a declaration and once we receive that report that the declaration was made under duress by the officers we appointed, then we will not issue the certificate of return.: Yakubu assured all stakeholders that the commission was committed to a free and fair process adding that: “We shall maintain our integrity and I have said over and over that I wouldn’t be tired of repeating myself that INEC is not a political party. We have no candidate in the Bayelsa State election. “However, we have a few areas of concern that I want to share with the stakeholders. Number one is the actions and utterances likely to lead to violence during electioneering campaign, during voting on election day and during collation of results and declaration. “We have promised Nigerians that the polling units will be open by 8am. If the officials are waylaid then we can’t get to the polling units by 8am and that is why we are appealing to all stakeholders, most especially the political actors and their supporters, to ensure that you call your supporters to order to enable us deliver the election materials in good time. “Our third concern is the voter’s inducement including the phenomenal called ‘vote buying’ on the election day. This is not a good commentary on our elections. Please let’s respect the will of the people.” Earlier in his address, the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Bayelsa State, Monday Udom Tom said the Voter Education Department of the commission has been involved in massive sensitization of the electorate particularly those at the grassroots to desist from selling their votes.