The House of Representatives’ Committee on Army has announced its decision to visit army formations across the country to assess their state. PHILIP NYAM examines the implications of this resolution   B arely a week after the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, inaugurated the 105 standing committees of the House of Representatives; the committee on Army led by Hon. Abdulrasak Sa’ad Abubakar (APC, Adamawa) announced the decision to embark on the tour of Nigerian Army formations across the country to acquaint themselves with the challenges confronting the force.   There is no doubt that the Nigerian Army is the largest component of the nation’s military and it often bears the brunt of the incessant security challenges being faced by the country. The Army fought the civil war to keep Nigeria one and since the fight against Boko Haram started, the Army has been at the forefront of the offensive against insurgency.   Operations Lafiya Dole, which is the arrowhead of the war against Boko Haram, has done so much in protecting the territorial integrity of the nation and sustainenance of peace, especially in the North-East.   According to Army operations media coordinator, Colonel Aminu Iliyasu, “troops in the various operational theatres across the country had continued to decimate and frustrate activities of criminal elements in line with the resolve of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai.”   The Nigerian Army is functionally organised into combat arms, which are infantry and armoured; the combat support arms, which are artillery, engineers and signals; the combat support services comprise medical, supply and transport, ordinance and finance.   Others include the military police, intelligence, physical training, chaplains, public relations and band. Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) located in Minna is responsible for doctrinal, training and combat development with an R&D outfit. There are 17 Corps Training Schools and a Nigerian Army College of Logistics (NACOL).   Only last week, the Army high command announced that in its effort to combat insecurity across the nation, it is set to commence simultaneous routine training nationwide. Part of the operations include Operation Ayem Akpatuma II, which has been slated for the North-Central and parts of North-West states in 1 and 3 Divisions Area of Responsibilities (AOR) including Headquarters Command Army Records, Guards Brigade and 707 Special Forces Brigade; Egwu Eke IV will be carried out, as usual, in the South-East in 82 Division AOR, while Crocodile Smile IV will take place in the South-South and parts of South-West.   Similarly, Operation Positive Identification will be carried out across the nation to track bandits, ethnic militia, cattle rustlers and other criminals. Also, as part of the exercises, the Nigerian Army Women Corps will stage a robust show of force/confidence building patrols in some selected locations in the country.   According to the Army spokesman, Col. Sagir Musa, to consolidate on the existing cordial civil-military relations, there will be elaborate civil/military cooperation line of activities such as free medical outreach, educational outreach, rehabilitation of dilapidated roads, hospitals, schools and old people’s homes.   Reports say “despite a disproportionate emphasis on the materiel and sophistication of the Nigerian Armed Forces, and despite possessing some formidable hardware, the Army has been hamstrung by technical deficiency and an exceptionally poor standard of maintenance.   “Its overabundance of foreign suppliers, including Austria, Brazil, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, Romania, Turkey, Ukraine, the former Soviet Union, the United States and the United Kingdom, has also complicated logistics. Calculating the size and scope of replacement inventories alone is impossible given the menagerie of equipment in use.”   With this picture painted about the Nigerian Army, it is not out of place for the House committee on Army to undergo the tour to really find out what the Army needs to effectively carry out its statutory responsibility.   If the National Assembly could appropriate for the Army, the relevant committee should visit their facilities including those who are in the North-East facing Boko Haram to assess the state of their conditions.   In fact, the presence of members of the National Assembly in the war front has the potentials of boosting the morale of the soldiers who are in the trenches.   Hence, addressing the inaugural meeting of the committee at the National Assembly, Hon. Namdas said: “Honourable members, you will recall that the 2020 budget proposal was presented yesterday by Mr. President. We are going to hit the ground running by immediately embarking on a joint committee tour with our Senate counterparts to selected Army formations to acquaint ourselves with the challenges faced by our officers and men.   “I believe by taking an on-the-spot assessment of the formations, we will be better equipped to appreciate the challenges and acquire the wherewithal to appropriate funds for the Army.”   He also commended the Nigerian Army for its good showing in the fight against insurgency. “I wish to, on behalf of the committee and the House of Representatives commend the Nigerian Army and the entire Nigerian military for the successes recorded so far in the fight against insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling among others,” he said.   Namdas also applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment to routing out all manner of security threats in the nation.   His words: “We thank His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, for his avowed commitment to stamp out Boko Haram and activities of other terrorist groups in the nation. We want to assure you that the House Committee on Army under my leadership would do everything within its powers to ensure that capacity building for members of the committee is strengthened so as to prepare us for the challenges ahead.”   He told members of the committee that the Nigerian Army is the biggest component of the nation’s armed forces and enjoined them to consider their appointment on the committee as a call to service.   “My dear colleagues, it is important to know that the Nigerian Army is the largest component of the Nigerian Armed Forces and it bears the brunt of the nation’s security challenges. So, we have a huge responsibility placed on our shoulders as a committee.   “We are all aware of the security challenges the nation has faced in the last few years, which is a source of concern to all of us. They require our utmost attention. I, therefore, implore you to consider this onerous assignment as a call to national service. We have to be proactive and patriotic while discharging our responsibilities,” he said.   Speaking further, the House committee chairman enjoined his colleagues “to take the issues of oversight and referrals very seriously. It is my belief that proper oversight will reposition the Army towards achieving their targets with ease.’   He assured that the committee would work towards “the full implementation of the House Legislative Agenda. The Legislative Agenda has identified sustained economic growth as the key to effectively addressing other national problems of inequality, insecurity and conflicts.   He added: “We are prepared to work with all stakeholders to secure our nation and guarantee economic growth, development and job creation. As you are aware, no nation thrives in a state of insecurity.”   The House committee on Army certainly has a lot to do because the Nigerian Army needs financial and moral support to work for the country. Therefore, the committee should ensure that the Army is well funded so that sundry rumours of out-dated equipment or non-payment of salaries or allowances of men who are in the North-East sacrificing for the nation will be a thing of the past.   The committee also has an obligation to look into allegations of some senior officers coveting funds meant for arms purchase into personal use. It is expected that at the end of the tour, the committee would present before the House comprehensive information on the true state of the Nigerian Army and concrete recommendations that could assist in maintaining a stronger and efficient military.  