Operatives of the Enugu State Police Command have arrested 15 persons across the state for allegedly committed various criminal offences ranging from armed robbery to murder. Among the suspects are an acclaimed man of God who murdered his girlfriend to steal her N2 million and land document; a South African returnee involved in armed robbery; and a 76-year- old security man accused of defiling an 11-year-old girl. Parading the suspects yesterday at the Police Headquarters, the Police Commissioner, Ahmad Abdur-Rahman said that the arrests were made possible through intelligence-led policing measures put in place by his command. Abdur-rahman said that the reason while he was sent to Enugu by the Inspector General of Police was yielding fruits, adding “we are struggling striving towards reducing crime to its barest minimum through proactive measures without losing sight of respect for human rights and rule of law.” He gave the breakdown of how the suspects were arrested and offences. He said Pastor Chukwuemeka Eze, 33, from Ubolo Etiti in Udenu LGA, but resides at N0. 14 Imudioke Crescent, New Artisan 3nugu, was arrested by the operatives of the Enugu State Police Command for allegedly killing his girlfriend, one Miss Ogechukwu Ogbodo over her alleged refusal to buy him a tricycle popularly known as Keke. The suspect, who reportedly bolted with the deceased’s N2 million cash and  land documents, had been dating the deceased who hailed from Amagunze in Nkanu-East Local Area of the State for five years. The South African returnee, Onyebuchi Udeh and six others were involved in alleged armed robbery including car snatching. Similarly, 75 year old Boniface Onoja, a native of Ugbaike community in Enugu Ezike Igbo-Eze LGA and a secondary school guard allegedly lured 11 year old victim into one of the classrooms where he had carnal knowledge of her but was caught on the act. According to the Commissioner of police, the operatives of the Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) on Friday last week also arrested three armed robbery gang that specialized in robbing point of sale (POS) Quickteller points in the state. The suspects he gave their names as Nweke Friday, 24yrs; Ochie Fidelis, 28; and Oluchi Chinedu, Nweke, 33yrs had allegedly robbed a POS point at Gariki Awkunanaw Enugu and carted the sum of N6 million which they shared among themselves before they were arrested. Other suspects arrested and paraded by the Commissioner, were another three-three-man-gang, one Anieberi Henry, 25yrs; Nnanna Ojike, 29yrs and Anieberi Ugochukwu, 20yrs ,who hailed from Umulumgbe in Udi Local Government Area of the state. They were said to have been terrorising the community until luck ran against them on September 29, 2019 when they were arrested by the SARS operatives in their hideouts. “Items recovered included two locally made pistol, one locally made single barrel cut to size gun and four live cartridges”. “The command’s operatives of Amechi-Idodo on September 7, at about 21:30hrs through intelligence information and robust patrol recovered a stolen TVS Tricycle with Reg: No AUC 624 QC blue and white in colour suspected to have been snatched and stolen from Port-Harcourt, Rivers State as it was being taken to Abakaliki in Ebonyi State,” he said.