 T he President Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Hon Tony Iju Nwabunike has disclosed that the leadership of the Chartered Customs Brokers of Nigeria Bill proposed by the association is ready and would be submitted to the National Assembly for consideration soonest. Hon Nwabunike, who was the pioneering chairman of Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN), dropped this hint in Lagos this week during an interview at the monthly Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON) Roundtable. He said he has completed work on the bill and would soon submit it to the National Assembly. “The bill is ready. All I am waiting for is for the 9th National Assembly to settle down fully, and we will submit it to them for consideration.” According to him when the bill becomes law it will enable Nigeria Customs Brokers to be properly trained be able hold their own and defend their profession anywhere in the world.  Hon Nwabunike further expressed his support for Nigerian Shippers Council’s capitalisation policy of the freight forwarding profession in Nigeria, saying its benefits to practitioners is enormous and cannot be overemphasised.  “It a good thing Shippers’ Council is doing for us. It will enable us to be able to handle capital intensive projects jobs. Too many project jobs come into Nigeria which many of our people cannot handle.  It will bring about consolidation. Hon Nwabunike regretted that for the about one year he took off his leadership duties in the association, to contest for the Federal House of Representatives seat for Nnewi North/South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency of Anambra State in the 2019 general elections, under the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), created some vacuum.  He, however, assured that in the remaining period of his administration, he will give his all to ANLCA. He stated that he is working assiduously to reconcile all members of the executive and members of the association who took opposite directions because of the dispute over the chairmanship of the board of trustees of the association, saying he favours the exit of Mr. Henry Njoku and Taiye Oyeniyi as chairman and secretary of the BOT of the association respectively, for ethnic balancing. He disclosed that despite distraction by his participation in the Anambra politics, he had within the about one year of his administration got the Nigeria Customs Service to unblock over 300 members’ licenses that were block before he assumed office as the president of the association. He also disclosed that the ANLCA House in Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos State is no longer just a mere magnificent edifice it was when he assumed office, “it is a digital and fully IT compliant and all compliments of a modern office.