 Gone are those days when teachers reward was said to be in heaven. Nowadays, through agitations and dedicated service delivery, they are reaping the fruits of their labour here on earth. Their agitation was borne chiefly out of their desire to benefit from those they have laboured so well in making to be among those in the corridors of power. On Saturday, October 5, their joy knew no bounds in Asaba, the Delta State capital,  when 12 teachers shared N18 million, and smiled to their banks with N2 million, N1.5 million and N1 million respectively. Two   teachers also cruised home in the brand new General Automobile Company (GAC) saloon cars, which the Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, dashed them for their exemplary service in the profession. They did not just emerge as winners of the 2019 and Maiden Edition of the Teachers’ Award for Excellence, jointly organized by the Ministry of Basic Education, headed by  the Commissioner in-charge, Chief Patrick Ukah, and the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in the state to commemorate the celebration of the World Teachers’ Day without tears. They  were made to cross rubicon of five sets of questionnaires, including, evaluation on over 15 attributes and scored on a range of 1-5 techniques, which 470 public secondary schools and 1,126 primary schools across the 25 council areas in the state participated in. An estimated number of 23,581 teachers and 1,596 Principals/Head-Teachers, with a grand total of 49,117 teachers and student/pupil, participated in the multi-level and multi-assessment techniques and selection process that saw to their eventual emergence as potential awardees. This came two months after 1,000 newly employed teachers in the state rolled out their drums of joy and appreciation to the state government for thinking well of them. The beneficiaries include the three best Principals, best three Head Teachers, three best Secondary School Teachers and three best Primary School Teachers in the state for the year 2019. Even,  Okowa, who was a guest of honour at the event, could not shy away from the truth, as he exhibited his avowed benevolence. He said: “From what I am seeing here tonight, the reward of teachers must have come down on earth from heaven. I am truly very pleased that teachers are being honoured these days. Let us rejoice and be glad in it.” Besides that the governor lavished money on the awardees, becuase he was highly elated, he bequeathed the cars to the first position best principal, Mr Fidelis Okolafor, who will retire from service next month and the first position Head-Teacher, Mrs Doris Toyin Esiedafe, a pastor, for distinguishing themselves among thousand of  colleagues in the profession in the state. The governor did not leave other awardees, including, Asanuvwe Elizabeth, Owumi Onome, Omotie Phoebe (Best Primary School Teachers), Oyemike  Andrew and Ogwara Gabriel (Best Head Teacher), Imarah Georgina, Eseimokumoh Charles, Ikeh Bridget (Best Secondary school Teacher), and Ominiabohs Adeline, Adiri Jonathan, to their fate. He  pronounced double portion of their cash award and ordered the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr Chiedu Ebie, and the Director of Finance to take note. Okowa, supported by Ukah, the SSG and the Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Comrade Titus Okotie, at the Unity Hall, Government House, Asaba, vowed to build a strong education legacy for the state by rewarding excellent service delivery. He was categorical that once parents and teachers abandoned their responsibilities and a child loses the foundation of educational character at the basic and secondary levels, that marks the beginning of a looming doomsday for such child. “The recognition should touch the heart of teachers and make them work harder. Parents and teachers are crucial in the educational upbringing of children. Worldly affairs and pursuit of money should not blindfold their eyes to such responsibilities. We need to continue to give care to our children and guide them aright because it is at this foundational level that we can mould their character. But unfortunately, the pressure of so many students in a class, which we are aware of, and doing our best to safeguard, is negatively affecting the productivity of some our teachers. “Without teachers, the making of a President will be difficult. Those of us who are governors today passed through them. Those who will be governors tomorrow will still pass through them. Their students are those you see, read and hear about as pilots, Major Generals, business moguls, oil magnates, professors, Doctors, lawyers, journalists and what have you. So, why should we not celebrate them when they are alive? I am pleased to be part of this award of excellence recognition”, the governor said. He seized the opportunity to narrate how his wife, Dame Edith, ran into a twin female orphans, who were crying out of school while she was a teacher and his family adopted, resettled and trained them. “Today, they are graduates, happily married and prosperous in life. Our teachers should be good counsellors to their students if they must know their problems and find solution to it. We need to get the moral development of the children aright at this level, so that it will be well with our nation. It is not enough to teach and go; no, there is more to it, life is greater than logic”, he cautioned. Okotie, who could not hold back his excitement at the governor’s gesture, said the governor so did, in fulfillment of his promise during the 2016 edition of the World Teachers’ Day, that ‘teachers who distinguished themselves in learning and teaching aid will no longer go unnoticed, they will henceforth be adequately rewarded to spur others in the profession to take the job seriously.’ The NUT boss commended the governor for keeping to his words and pledged the total commitment of his members to the five point SMART agenda of prosperity to all Delta of his administration. Ukah, under whose purview the event held, listed areas for improvement on the award for excellence to include, digitalization of the selection process to ensure an all-inclusive selection and participation by all teachers and students, increasing the sample size for both teachers and students/pupils to ensure internal and external validity of the selection process, standardization of the questionnaires, improvement on the prize rewards to winners and increasing the number of awards to subject areas especially English, Mathematics, and the Sciences and an overall improvement in the planning, organization and effectiveness of the entire award selection process and the ceremony. A car recipient, Mrs Doris, simply urged the governor to remain natural as a promise-keeper, and continue to serve God in spirit and truth.