As part of its corporate social responsibility, Fidelity Bank Plc, yesterday, delivered three security patrol vans and created a special employment window for traders under the umbrella of Auto Spare Parts and Machinery Dealers Association (ASPAMDA), Association of Progressive Traders (APT) as well as Balogun Business Association (BBA). Speaking at the bank headquarters in Lagos, Managing Director, Fidelity Bank Plc, Nnamdi Okonkwo, explained that the bank in line with its engagement calendar with the traders three months ago realised that the challenges affecting them centered around security, adding that the bank decided to facilitate security arrangements by presenting three security patrol vans. His words: “We went over to ASPAMDA, BBA to see how we could serve them better and in that process a lot of issues came up, which included issues about security in that area as well as infrastructure. We already arranged a meeting with the Lagos State Government and the market at an interactive session we had a few weeks ago, the next phase will then be to meet again and perfect how we can proceed based on how we discussed. “We realised that security was a challenge when we made that visit and that also included the market not having security patrol vehicles. We did make a promise that we will support them with that and that is why today we are presenting these vehicles to facilitate their security arrangements in the various markets. “As an institution, we do not take deposits and give loans alone, we realised from interaction that most of these customers have wards, children who have gone through university and are not still employed, so we use the opportunity to create a portal for eligible candidates to apply and those that pass the recruitment exercise will be employed.” Corroborating him, Executive Director, Lagos and South West, Fidelity Bank Plc, Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe, noted that the gesture was a way of rewarding the traders for their loyalty and added that the bank would continue to deliver value. Expressing his delight, President, ASPAMDA, Chief Daniel Oforkansi, said: “We are happy and it is a big challenge to other competitors in the financial industry as Fidelity Bank has done exceptionally well. What they exhibited today shows that they are ready to promote our businesses.”