…murder teacher in Delta  G unmen have abducted three children and killed two people at Yebu in Kwali Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).   This came barely seven days after nine people were abducted at Dafara village in Kuje Area Council, FCT.   Also, a teacher at the Azagba Mixed Secondary School, Issele-Azagba in Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State, identified simply as Mr. Oriakhi, has died after being shot by kidnappers.   A resident of Yebu, Ayuba Danlami, said the gunmen attacked the village in the early hours of yesterday.   Danlami said the gunmen attacked one of the houses, killed two natives and abducted the three children from the same family.   The resident noted that those killed attempted to run away from their houses when the gunmen shot them.   He added: “In fact, we couldn’t sleep last night due to their gunshots which rend the air. As the two persons attempted to escape through the back door, one of the kidnappers opened fire on them.”   The Chairman of the council, Mr. Danladi Chiya, confirmed the abduction of three children and killing of two persons.  Chiya said that one of those killed was an All Progressives Congress (APC) supporter in the area.  He said: “I am right now in tears as I speak to you, as one of my APC supporters was killed at the village by the gunmen. I want to call on security agents to intensify efforts to fish out those behind the attack at Yebu village.”  The FCT Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Anjuguri Manza, was yet to confirm the abduction at press time.  Meanwhile, the Principal of Azagba Mixed Secondary School, Mrs. Bridget Onyeje, and three head teachers narrowly escaped being killed.  The gunmen invaded the school premises about 1p.m. on Monday, kidnapped two pupils, six teachers, including the murdered teacher, before they were rescued through combined efforts of detectives and vigilantes.  Two of the teachers, who were shot during the invasion, were rushed to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Asaba, where one of them reportedly died yesterday.  The armed men were said to have stormed the school premises, seized the principal and the head teachers, including Mr. Ifeanyichukwu, shot two other teachers who were trying to escape.  Oriakhi, who was shot in the stomach, died during surgery.  The state Commissioner of Police, Adeyinka Adeleke, said the teachers “were abducted but rescued last night (Monday)”.   Although, the commissioner said no arrest had been made, a source in the community said one person was caught with the victims in the bush where they were kept.   Adeleke could not confirm that one of the victims had died.   He said: “Let me ascertain that.”