No fewer than 8,549 ghost pensioners have been uncovered by the Imo state government just as N280 million was being saved monthly following a comprehensive evaluation and audit of pensioners and pension administration in the state. This was disclosed by Governor Emeka Ihedioha during a statewide broadcast on the pensions’ situation in the state yesterday. Besides, he announced that payment of arrears of pensions to retired civil servant had commenced. The payment of arrears of pensions in the state came barely a week the governor had at a Stakeholders’ Meeting on Pensions Matters at Imo Concorde hotel, Owerri, announced that payment will commence yesterday, 17th October, 2019. In the broadcast, Ihedioha announced that the state government would be paying out N1, 218,175,387 monthly for both state and the local government pensioners. He said: “I would like to appeal to all our citizens that the challenge of payment of pensions’ bills standing over N1.2 billion monthly is very enormous. This calls for sacrifices by all citizens. “We are confronted with the necessity to source for the revenue to ensure a good life for our senior citizens. “One of such frameworks was the Imo State Pension Board and its corresponding pension management system which was afflicted with intractable problems and riddled with corruption. “Sadly, we inherited six years of pension arrears and discovered inexplicable discrepancies in the total number of pensioners in both the State and the 27 local governments. We received complaints on various forms of irregularities in the scheme from various pension beneficiaries and stakeholders. “When we made to resolve the contending issues, we were confronted with conflicting information from various offices in charge of pension administration. Consequently, we could not ascertain the proper position of monthly pension liabilities in the state.” “As you all are aware, it has been my declared commitment to ensure that our senior citizens retire in joyful hope, live in dignity and are extended the courtesy they deserve.” “It is very instructive that out of an initial monthly bill of N1, 499,157,895.00 being accrual for 33,541 state and LGA pensioners, presented to the state government as at May 2019, the amount has been trimmed down to N1, 218,175,387 for 24,992 pensioners.” “This entails a savings of N280, 982,508.00 or 18.7 percent per month. Consequently, a total of 8,549 or 25 percent of ghost pensioners in all were filtered out. This represents the amount of state resources that would have gone into the drains without the necessary due diligence.”