 N igeria Customs Service (NCS), Area II Command, Onne Port, has seized 20 containers of tomatoes, 11 containers of expired rice and other contraband with Duty Paid Valued (DPV) of N1.1 billion.  The Comptroller-General Of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), who disclosed this yesterday, said other seizures included 10 containers of vegetable oil valued at N58.38 million, 34 containers of roofing tiles worth N505.68 million, one container of machetes with a total DPV of N36.34 million, nine containers of expired vegetable oil and jam worth N117.61 million, one container of expired baby wipes with a total DPV of N9.04 million,  one container of scrap metal amounting to N6,04 million.  Ali said that the seizures were in line with the provisions of the Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) CAP C45 LFN 2004, Sections 46 and 161. He said: “This is in line with our continuous drive to prevent the importation of harmful and prohibited items into the country. The on-going partial closure of land borders across four geo-political zones in the country has led to increased desperation by smugglers who are now diverting their activities to our seaports.”  Ali promised that a thorough investigation would be conducted with a view to bringing all connected to justice. He added that the service would apply stringent sanctions on any act capable of compromising its efforts towards achieving better efficiency in the discharge of its mandate. Also, Customs Area Controller of the command, Aliyu Galadima Saidu, in a statement, explained that the service had collected N89.75 billion revenue from January 2019 till date. Ali urged the command to sustain the effort and possibly surpass its 2019 target. He added: “Let me reiterate our concern and determination to do all it takes to protect the wellbeing and safety of all citizens and residents by preventing the devastating effect of these hazardous importation and smuggled items. They endanger our lives as Nigerians hence will not be allowed to find their ways into the markets. “As a responsible agency, the NCS will not disappoint on its mandate of enforcing compliance by maintaining zero tolerance to smuggling activities, irrespective of whoever is involved and under whatever circumstance.”