An atmosphere of fun took over the Egbe, Ikotun, Ejigbo axis recently when the Greendiv Funfair  made a stop at the axis, exciting students in their hundreds, their parents and guardians as well as other guests. Held at the Muslim Praying Ground in Egbe, the event took place on October 1 to mark the nation’s 59th Independence anniversary with a lot to eat and drink as well as fun games to engage with. Speaking about the event, the converner, Maureen Ogum said the objective is to create some cheer for children in the environment while engaging the society also in creative ways.  “We write to you schools with proposals, we started in Alimosho and we are expanding to other parts of the area and then we are combining with Ejigbo. We write to the schools to prepare their students for certain competitions depending on which is slated for the particular event.  The last time, we had the spelling bee competition and it could be debate or even a cooking competition but this time around, we just hosted a march past competition along with a cultural display which includes folk songs. We also had a drama presentation like a skit as well as poetry and instrumentals. It was all about anything that has to do with culture because the event is tagged Hope for Nigeria and themed to depict the diverse cultures of the country,” she said in a chat with Saturday Telegraph. Speaking further, she added: “We had dignitaries who came to talk to the children. We had representatives from the Ministry of Health, the Exams Board, the palace as well as the local government here.  We also had a number of sponsors who came to support us in creating an atmosphere of fun for the children. The truth is there has not been much support, expecially from government at all levels. Probably because we are not in an election season whereby they cannot cease the opportunity to campaign but we have some sponsors that have always had our back. Like Mr Chef, Fan Milk, CWAY, Domino’s Pizza, Energised Water which has never disapMaureen Ogum (4th from left) pointed us.”