F rontline businessman, Jimoh Ibrahim returned to the news several weeks back when news of his mother’s demise hit town. The passage of the mother was no doubt painful to the Igbotako, Ondo State-born lawyer cum politician, however, he took solace in the fact that the deceased didn’t just live to old age before passing to the great beyond but equally lived a good life and left behind a good legacy.  When it was time for Jimoh to commit his mother to mother earth and bid her farewell, the money bag went all out to ensure he did this to the best of his ability and eventually, the whole affair ended in a very commendable way which will no doubt put smiles on the face of the deceased wherever she was as her son gave her a most befitting burial.  The journey of Mrs. Theresa Omofemiwa Jimoh to eternal glory kicked off with a service of songs at her residence in Victoria Garden City, Lagos. The solemn ceremony was attended by very close family and friends. This was followed next day by the funeral service and interment which both took place at the Victoria Garden Cemetery, Ajah, also in Lagos.  During his message at the funeral service, the officiating minister urged the congregation to emulate the departed soul who was faithful till the end. He emphasized on the need to lay up treasures in heaven. He added that in the likes of the famous Mother Theresa, Mrs. Jimoh was a very caring mother who guided her children well and also impacted her community.  The train later moved to Balmoral Events Centre, Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island where guests were hosted to a reception. Dignitaries at the event included: Traditional ruler of Igbotako and Rebuja of Osooro Kingdom, Ondo State, Oba Gbadebo Bajowa, Oniju of Ijuodo Kingdom, His Royal Majesty, Oba Festus Oyedele Olumoyeku, Chief Pius Akinyelure, Former Osun State Governor, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola  and wife, Mrs. Omolola Olagunsoye, Former Secretary to the Federal Government, Babachir Lawal, Chief Amos Akingba, Barr. Adeniyi Akintola (SAN), ACP Bode Ojajuni, Prince Adedamola Aderemi and Former Cross Rivers State Governor, Mr. Donald Duke.