Popular Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels, has explained why she married Nigerian politician and business, Ned Nwoko. The marriage, which was contracted in April, was widely criticised on social media because of the 38-year age gap between the couple. “I don’t think I could have married someone of my age because I am quite stubborn, very stubborn, my head is not down but with my husband that is not the case because I respect him a lot,” she noted. The 20-year-old actress revealed this in a YouTube video interview, which was conducted in Dubai where the actress is currently holidaying with her husband. It is also the first time the actress would agree to publicly speak about her marriage. During the interview, Mr. Nwoko, the Nigerian politician who married the actress as his 6th wife also spoke about his love story with Regina. He said: “Some people thought I met her (Regina) through her mother. We met, fell in love and got married within three weeks.” When asked if she was not bothered about the public uproar that trailed her marriage, Regina said: “The only thing I was worried about when he proposed was how I was going to tell my family and not what the public will say or think. I have learned a lot from him. I call him ‘baby’. I used to cook but my husband has stopped me from entering the kitchen, If enter the kitchen he’ll say stupid girl why are you cooking, you have cooks ” she said. Her husband, Ned Nwoko, justified why he doesn’t allow her to cook by adding that added that “ but I need her time for other things”. The couple also revealed that they both share common interests including a love for swimming. Mr Nwoko said: “I taught her how to swim and I learnt under 20 minutes. I have taught over 700 people how to swim in the last four years. It is my passion that’s why I’m building a sports university as you might know.” He also gave a sneak-peek into his private life. “I don’t drink alcohol, I don’t eat meat or chicken. I am a Muslim, a lot of people don’t know this. I converted when I was schooling in England. I am not religious but I believe in values and ethos that is what should guide everyone’s conscience,” he revealed.