The youth wing of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, on Thursday, demanded 40 percent slots in the cabinet and appointments of the state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun.
Addressing a press conference at the party secretariat in Abeokuta, the youths asked the governor not to toe the path of his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, whom they accused of allegedly using and dumping them.
The event, which coincided with the general meeting of the youth since inception of the Abiodun administration, had the governor’s loyalists and aides, including Special Adviser on Youths and Job Creation, Lekan Olude; Engr Ayo Olubori, Hon Biyi Adeleye, Hon Afolabi Afuape, Lamide Lawal and Damilola Ogunpola, in attendance.
Speaking on behalf of the party youths, Comrade Rasheed Aroboto, who is the convener, also expressed their determination to run for chairmanship and councillorship positions in the next local government elections in the state.
Aroboto said the youths remain vital components of electioneering, stressing that the dividends of governance should be evenly shared with the youthful populace.
He, therefore, urged stakeholders in the ruling party to work with the governor towards ensuring that youths are given prominence in the state’s governance system.
He said: “The Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, just recently made it known that his administration’s cabinet will be shared with women of the state taking up to 50 percent of his cabinet members. This laudable development has since then left the youths of the state wandering in their own thoughts.
“Are we youths considered as an apex body of this government? Is this government actually interested in paying back the youth who stood firmly during turbulent times? Are the youths now considered as an alien, a misfit or being surplus to requirement in governance?
“Ogun State is blessed with innovative and politically experienced youths who are well capable of being Commissioners, Senior Special Assistants, Special Assistants and Local Government Liaison Officers to the governor on various levels.
“We hereby call on the leaders of this great party, to liaise with the governor on behalf of the youth who have worked and suffered so much for the party and laboured painstakingly for the emergence of His Excellency, not to be ignored and abandoned at this hour.”