Anthony Sani is the Secretary General of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). In this interview, he speaks with TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE on Nigeria’s 59th Independence anniversary and the early race for the 2023 presidency, among other issues   What is your take on Nigeria’s 59th Independence anniversary? Fifty-nine anniversary celebration of our independence is just another celebration of our independence, but there is nothing exotic about the celebration. However, it is good that we celebrate our independence in order to take stock of the progress we have made so far and remind ourselves that we are now responsible for our destiny as an independent nation. We should note our achievements, shortcomings as well as where we have gone wrong in our leadership style and management practices with a view to improving on our performances. In doing so, we must not look at only the mountains, but also look at the sea. This is because situations and challenges differ from country to country. As a result, approaches for overcoming them must necessarily differ. That is why it is often said that examination papers for different countries are never the same. As someone who witnessed when Nigeria gained independence on October 1, 1960, are you satisfied with the present state of Nigeria? In as much as our socio-economic development status is behind those of our peers, we cannot be satisfied with our pace of performances and efforts. But if we compare our socio-economic status at independence like universities, schools, health institutions, level of energy and power, among others as well as number of states that includes the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), with what is obtainable at our 59th anniversary, we can hardly avoid the conclusion that the nation has moved, however slow the pace is. Such observations should suggest we count our blessings one-by-one and resolve to do more, now that multi-party democracy with its freedom is taking root and freeing individual capacities for performance. That should spur us to gird our loin and increase the quality of our vision and the efforts to attain them. And in doing so, we must be realistic about available resources to the nation and their limiting factors. Do you think the 59th Independence anniversary is worth celebrating considering the present state of the nation? Our independence is worth celebrating because freedom alone is a value that is worthy of a celebration. We must not forget the truism that all the good things of life like order, justice, liberty, common decency and prosperity for all are never natural order of things, but attained through ceaseless hard work by not only leaders, but by the led as well. As the challenges arise, leaders are expected to bring the people together to unleash their synergy against such collective challenges for common good. That is what is involved in mechanism of community living; to work hard and overcome challenges as they arise. Where did Nigeria get it wrong as a nation? While I agree that our expectations from the independence have not been met due to failure of leadership and collapse of our national ideals and moral values, we cannot conclude that the independence is not worth celebrating. Even freedom that comes with multi-party democracy alone is worth celebrating. We have made efforts at improving socio-economic development through several restructuring of the country by geography, through politics, economics and even forms of governments. That these efforts have not met our expectations at the desired pace cannot suggest no efforts have been made or that no achievements have been recorded. So, the 59th independence anniversary celebration should make us know that when the growth in population exceeds that of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the economy cannot sustain it. That is where we are today. For example, our population and that of Britain were at par at independence, but today, that of Britain is not more than 65 million, while Nigeria bandies a figure of 180 million. To this end, the celebration should remind Nigerians of the damage done by corruption to the country and make Nigerians assess progress against plans in the war against corruption, assess the fight against insecurity and the effort in diversification of the economy away from over dependence on oil and resolve to do more. What is your message to Nigerians and government on this occasion of the 59th independence anniversary? My message to Nigerians is that the 59th independence anniversary is worth celebrating and that Nigerians must not only look at the mountain, but also look at the sea and count their blessings one-by-one with a resolve to come together and unleash their synergy against challenges as they arise. Since the challenges have largely been inherited by the government, which has promised to remove or reduce the sand bags on the path of socio-economic development, and which mandate has just been renewed as signs of confidence on the government, the people are expected to come together and support the regime to deliver on the promise of its mandate until the next round of elections, when politicians will go back to the trenches in line with practice of multi-party democracy. One way of giving the government the desired support is to avoid giving ethnic and religious coloration to purely criminal acts lest we provide criminals with platforms to hide and perpetrate crimes in their belief that ethnicity and religion cannot be prosecuted. Another area is for Nigerians to note that diversification of the economy is never a day’s job. So, they should exercise more patience with the government’s efforts, while the opposition should provide viable alternative platforms and not seek to promote cleavages of the nation along ethnic, religious and regional lines. What is your take on the early race for the 2023 presidency? It is too early for politics of 2023.This is because playing such politics of 2023 at this point is capable of distracting attention of government from purposeful leadership. Leaders at all levels should note that because resources are always in short supply, governance is not more than an art of balancing competing demands among not only constituent parts, but also among socio-economic sectors, which is the only way to command loyalty in favour of national solidarity. And in doing so, the presidency cannot afford the avoidable impression of a divided presidency let alone of presiding over a divided nation. Any signs of crimp in the government and the ruling party must be avoided in favour of promotion of national solidarity needed for making the most of our God-given diversity. Nigeria is passing difficult times, but hard time should not make us redefine our common destiny and set our national agenda. This is because to do so is to be defeatist, whereas great minds are defined by great challenges. Such minds pursue causes higher than themselves as worthy impulse. I am pretty sure that with consciously directed efforts by the government and supported by the citizens, we shall overcome and make Nigeria great again.