Worried by the tragic loss of lives and the rate of distressed buildings in the area, the Lagos State government said that it had marked over 100 buildings for demolition in Magodo. This came on the heels of upsurge in loss of lives resulting from collapsed buildings. The General Manager (GM), the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA), Abiola Kosegbe, who disclosed the planned demolition, warned property owners with endangered structures to do the right thing or lose their houses. A woman, her two children and her sister were killed when a house built on a hill collapsed on another at the Otun Araromi area of Magodo-Isheri. It was learnt that the tragic development forced the state government to begin a thorough inspection of endangered buildings to avert recurrence of the tragedy. Kosegbe, who led officials of LASBCA to Magodo area to monitor illegal development there, said the removal of the marked buildings was crucial to avert another collapse. In the area, residents were seen paddling canoes to get to their destination as flood had taken over the road and hundreds of properties. “We are just here to take an inventory of everything going on. We are 100 per cent sure that the majority of properties here don’t have a development permit. We are going to take inventory of properties here and we have already served most of them. We will come back and then they need to bring all their documents. “Definitely, this is a flood-prone area and is susceptible to flooding. Before people can build here, there is supposed to be an engineering feat that needs to be done here. We will be back here, properties that don’t have a permit; we will ensure they vacate their properties,” Kosegbe said. She noted that notices had been given by the commissioner to residents of the area that they needed to vacate, as the area was not safe for habitation. Kosegbe added: “This is a disaster waiting to happen. The health hazards of living in this condition are serious. For properties up the hill, we are equally going to serve them because we need to see their foundation design and their slope stabilisation method. For every single property, they will show us their development permits and details as to how they managed to build on those hills to prevent any slide, mudslide or whatever.”