A team of researchers said an alternative treatment that could  cure diabetes was underway. According to an article published in ‘The Jerusalem Post,’ the new treatment involves implanting a bio-artificial pancreas under the skin using local anesthesia during an outpatient procedure, which would help monitor blood sugar levels in the body, detect the amount of insulin that each patient needs and release it into the bloodstream. The artificial pancreas works by connecting with the patient’s blood vessels and measuring the blood sugar levels in order to secrete the right amount of insulin needed to balance blood sugar. However, the artificial pancreas, which may be replaced after some months could be priced up to $50,000. The product, which lasted 90 days in mice, could hit the market during the next few years. The current method requires some patients to inject insulin into their body, but manages the disease without a cure. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), half a billion people have diabetes and about 160 million of them were insulin dependent. Chief Executive Officer of Betalin Therapeutics, Dr. Nikolai Kunicher, who is one of the researchers that developed the therapy, said their invention was a new way to treat diabetes. He said: “Today, you only have ways to manage the disease. This is a cure. The diabetic pancreas has lost the function of secreting insulin and we give it back. The patient should never have to inject insulin into his body again.” Diabetes mellitus, commonly known as diabetes, is a metabolic disease that causes high blood sugar. The hormone insulin moves sugar from the blood into the cells to be stored or used for energy. With diabetes, the body either doesn’t make enough insulin or can’t effectively use the insulin it makes. Type 1 diabetes, once known as juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes, is a chronic condition in which the pancreas produces little or no insulin. Insulin is a hormone needed to allow sugar (glucose) to enter cells to produce energy. Kunicher and his team developed the first bio-artificial pancreas composed of pig’s lung tissue and insulin secreting cells. The innovative pancreas has been successfully examined in animal clinical trials and the researchers hope that human trials will begin within the next year. Betalin Therapeutics was founded in 2015 and has two famous Nobel laureates on its board, Professor Arieh Warshel and Professor Sidney Altman, who suffers from diabetes and his hope is that the new device could be utilised to help patients.