 Researchers from Australia have revealed that even small amounts of alcohol during pregnancy could increase the baby’s risk of developing diabetes. The study conducted by researchers from the University of Queensland in Australia, showed that while the mothers’ blood alcohol concentration only reached 0.05 per cent, their male offspring had much higher insulin levels than normal, and almost became diabetic as a result. Strangely, this effect was only seen in male offspring. Insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreatic islets; it is considered to be the main anabolic hormone of the body. Diabetes mellitus, commonly known as diabetes, is a metabolic disease that causes high blood sugar. The hormone insulin moves sugar from the blood into your cells to be stored or used for energy. With diabetes, your body either doesn’t make enough insulin or can’t effectively use the insulin it does make. Based on the impact of alcohol, the Senior author of the study, Lisa Alison said: “Even a small amount of alcohol during pregnancy can be harmful. So, if you’re planning on getting pregnant, don’t drink. In the study, which was performed on rats, the researchers mimicked ‘special occasion drinking’ during pregnancy, and looked at the effect on the offspring. While the reason for this remains unclear, the researchers suggested that during pregnancy, the placenta may adapt to a prenatal stress differently, depending on if it’s a male or female, and that this could impact growth and development. It is important to note that the study was only performed on mice, and further research was needed to verify whether the same findings applied to humans, the ‘Mirror’ reported. Alison said: “Families, partners and friends should support a woman’s choice not to drink alcohol during pregnancy. “If a woman accidentally becomes pregnant, and unknowingly drinks alcohol during the first part of their pregnancy, the important thing once they know is to stop drinking, have a good diet and take care of themselves throughout the remainder of the pregnancy.”