 …says ‘we’re overburdened with extraneous functions  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has renewed its demand for the enactment of a legislation establishing an Electoral Offences Commission and Electoral Offences Tribunal to handle all cases of violation of the Electoral Act, particularly during every election in Nigeria. Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who made the demand during a budget defence session with the Joint Committees of the Senate and House of Representatives on Electoral Matters, said the commission was currently saddled with extraneous responsibilities, including security of election and arrest and prosecution of persons who violate the electoral law. In the last 12 years, there has been a persistent clamour for the unbundling of INEC in line with the recommendations of the Justice Muhammad Uwais Report on Electoral Reforms. However, the idea has also been consistently rejected on the premise that it would create further bureaucracies for an issue that could be resolved using existing agencies. Yakubu, who was at the National Assembly to render account of the 2019 budget and defend the 2020 expenditure proposals of INEC, argued that the commission was overburdened with several functions that were not part of its core mandate and there was need to shed some of these extra-loads. According to him, while INEC would continue to manage the elections and its logistics, it was finding it difficult combining its core functions with the issues arising from security and electoral offences. “The Electoral Act empowers the commission to prosecute electoral offenders, but look at the challenge that we face, for you to prosecute, you have to make arrest and INEC has no police to make arrest. The same ad-hoc staff that are guiding the electoral materials on election days cannot be used to arrest electoral offenders. “Second, INEC has no capacity to investigate and even if you investigate, where are you going to get the evidence to prosecute? I think the best way is to work closely with the police, they will make arrest and then we prosecute together. Only last week, we received 16 case files from the Nigeria Police and we are going to make sure that they are prosecuted. But if you saddle INEC with the responsibility of prosecuting electoral offenders, are we not abandoning our core mandate? Some of the electoral offenders are INEC staff; how do we go about prosecuting ourselves? “This is why consistently, one committee after another has recommended the establishment of an Electoral Offences Commission. Let us have an Electoral Offences Commission to take care of all electoral violators whether they are INEC staff or whoever. Some countries have Electoral Courts. So, we look forward to the enactment of the Electoral Offenders Commission and Tribunal Bill so that all violators can be taken there for prosecution,” he said. He disclosed that as an election management body, INEC has one of the largest number of offices nationwide. According to him, managing these properties is also a task on its own and involves adequate finances to keep them in good condition. “We have almost 1,000 buildings to take care of because first of all, we have offices in the 774 LGAs of the country. We have state offices, we have zonal offices, we have the Electoral Institute, Data Recovery Centre and we have residential quarters for the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) in the states. “At each election, some of the offices are targeted and are either vandalised or destroyed. You will recall that before the 2019 general election, the first office attacked was in Quan Pan Local Government Area in Plateau State. Our office in Isiala Ngwa, Abia State was also completely burnt down. So far, 16 offices were burnt down in the course of the last election. “As we speak, the state offices are in various stages of dilapidation and the zonal stores in Owerri, Imo State has been abandoned. “The truth is that as an election management body, we are conducting elections, we are saddled with the logistics and we are managing over a thousand buildings across the country. The burden is just too much,” he said. On why INEC had not made any provisions for the purchase of engine boats in its budget even as it is preparing to conduct elections in Bayelsa State, the INEC boss explained that it was not economically reasonable to do so. According to him, INEC had boats in the past, but decided to discard them because it doesn’t make sense having such a facility that will be used once in four years. “What we do now is to outsource such services. When we go to Bayelsa, we hire boats, they deliver our personnel and materials to designated points and that’s all. “But in addition to that, we actually need more than boats in Bayelsa. We have need for gunboats and the commission cannot have gunboats. Each time we deploy to the state, we have to get a boat and two gunboats; one in front and one at the back to protect our personnel and materials, otherwise there will be trouble on the high sea. On this one, we have to rely on the Navy and the Marine Police,” Yakubu said.