• Striker scores for ninth consecutive match in 2-1 Bayern win • Serie A leaders Juventus held to a 1-1 draw at Lecce Robert Lewandowski scored for a Bundesliga-record ninth consecutive match as Bayern Munich scraped past promoted Union Berlin 2-1 to reclaim top spot in the league. Lewandowski, who has scored in every competitive game in the league, Champions League and German Cup this season for a total of 19 goals, netted his 13th league goal eight minutes after the restart for his new Bundesliga record. Benjamin Pavard had volleyed in to put the hosts ahead in the 13th minute but the rest of the half was far less entertaining with Bayern again struggling for ideas and the visitors putting up a fight. The Bayern keeper Manuel Neuer did well to save a penalty three minutes later but he was beaten by a Sebastian Polter spot-kick in the 85th minute, reports Reuters. The Bavarians are top on 18 points, one ahead of Freiburg, who beat RB Leipzig 2-1. Borussia Mönchengladbach can go back to the top on Sunday when they host Eintracht Frankfurt. Schalke and Borussia Dortmund played out a lacklustre goalless draw. Schalke twice hit the woodwork in a dominant first half with Dortmund content to play second fiddle. Schalke, who won four on the trot before stumbling in their last two games, should have scored in the second half but for teenager Rabbi Matondo’s less than clinical finish. Dortmund, who have now won only one of their last five league games, are on 16 points, with Schalke on 15. In Italy, Juventus dropped points for just the second time this season in Serie A when they were held to a 1-1 draw at Lecce on Saturday. Paulo Dybala’s penalty put the champions in front early in the second half but the Lecce captain Marco Mancosu quickly replied with a spot kick of his own. Juventus, who remain unbeaten in the league under Maurizio Sarri, came into the match on the back of a seven-match winning run in all competitions. But they struggled to find a breakthrough against the spirited hosts in the absence of star man Cristiano Ronaldo, who was rested for the trip. It was only the second time this season that the Turin club had failed to win a league match, after they were held to a 0-0 draw by Fiorentina in September. Juventus remain top on 23 points after second-placed Inter blew the chance to go top when they were held to a 2-2 draw by Parma to remain one point behind the leaders. Antonio Candreva’s opener was cancelled out by goals from the former Inter forward Yann Karamoh and Gervinho to give the visitors a shock half-time lead. Antonio Conte’s side fought back through a Romelu Lukaku strike after the break but it was not enough to take advantage of Juventus’s slip-up. Atlético Madrid snapped a three-game winless streak in La Liga by beating Athletic Bilbao 2-0 at home to move level on points with the table-toppers Barcelona. 