Wife of Ekiti State governor, Mrs. Bisi Fayemi, has paid the bills of seven post-natal patients, who have been stranded at the State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH), Ado-Ekiti, since September. About 4p.m. on Friday, the governor’s wife got to know about the challenges of the patients on WhatsApp message through one of her aides, who is the Coordinator of Ekiti Development Foundation (EDF), Mrs. Bunmi Alonge. Fayemi immediately sent   Alonge, along with another aide, Alhaji Dauda Lawal, to the hospital to ascertain the situation. Lawal said: “The cases were verified and it was discovered that seven patients, among who were two teenagers and five others with ectopic pregnancy cases had been discharged from the hospital at various times since September but were not allowed to go home due to their indebtedness to the hospital.” Records available at the hospital showed that the seven patients were owing N682,300. The patents are Pelumi Arowosafe, Olaleye Kemisola, Olabiyi Funmilayo, Taiwo Ayomide, Blessing Wisdom, Kolade Grace and Olasehinde Damilola. Alonge and Lawal represented the governor’s wife at the weekend to ensure the release of the patients to their respective families from the hospital. Alonge told the patients that the wife of the governor, after reading their plight in a WhatsApp message, directed that they should be released immediately while their bills had been promptly settled by her. She said: “Within 10 minutes after reading about your plight and indebtedness to this hospital about 4p.m. on Friday, Erelu Bisi Fayemi directed that we should come around to pay your bills so that you can go back to your various homes with your new babies and families.” The patients expressed gratitude to Fayemi for her empathy which led to their discharge from the hospital. The Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee of EKSUTH, Dr. Olusoji Solomon, who represented the Chief Medical Director (CMD), appreciated the wife of the governor for her regular gestures on such issues. He said: “On behalf of the Chief Medical  Director and the entire team of this hospital, we want to appreciate the kind gesture of Her Excellency, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, who, as usual, decided to offset the bills of these patients, may the Almighty God continue to bless her abundantly.”