Mr. Ituah Imhanze is an Arbitrator. In this interview with AKEEM NAFIU, he speaks on AGF’s plea for better funding of justice ministry, Kogi Deputy Governor’s impeachment, delay in justice system and sundry issues  What is your take on the demand by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN), for the allocation of 2.5 percent of recovered looted funds to his Ministry to service logistics, operational costs as well as payment to private lawyers and consultants? Firstly, a plea with very valid reasons and not a demand was made by the Attorney General of the Federation. As long as due process is followed, the allocation would be helpful to offset the judgement debts of the Federal Government of Nigeria which already stands to the tune of N150 billion. The operational costs of hiring private consultants and lawyers also need to be settled as these legal practitioners and/or consultants need to be reimbursed for cost incurred and legal advisory or representative services rendered to the Federal Governemnt through the Ministry of Justice. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) claimed to have recovered about N939 billion since 2015. However, many Nigerians believed these funds only appeared on paper. How do we make the anti-graft agency accountable for these recovered funds? Firstly, we must give credit to the EFCC. There is no doubt that they are doing a good work within the resources available to them. Having said that, agencies of government are by their enabling Acts and extanct laws made accountable for their acts whilst in office and out of office. There must be clear cut reporting lines and the need for a periodic publications of recovered loots and their status. Accountability is key in the discharge of this onerous assignment. All organs of government must be seen to be providing checks and balances as and when necessary. The Legislature must as a matter of policy carry out their oversight functions. There is an absolute need for transparency in the actions of an institution like the EFCC. It is suggested that there should be a collaboration between the EFCC and the office of the Attorney General of the Federation in establishing a Committee or an inter-governmental agency charged solely with the management of recovered assets. This will no doubt ensure accountability and transparency. Do you share the sentiments that the Kogi State House of Assembly has violated Section 188 (8) of the Constitution by going ahead to impeach the Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba, despite the fact that he was cleared of any wrongdoing by the 7-man panel set up by the State’s Chief Judge? In the removal of a Deputy Governor of a State, the proper procedure is clearly outlined in Section 188 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (As amended). Section 188 (8) clearly provides that “Where the panel reports to the House of Assembly that the allegation has not been proved, no further proceedings shall be taken in respect of the matter”. It is settled law that any act or procedure done in contravention of the Constitution (the ground norm and the foremost legislation of the Federal Republic of Nigeria is to the extent of its inconsistency null and void. Trial delay is a major problem in the Nigerian judicial system. Cases often spend years before they are concluded. How do you think judicial proceedings can be hastened up? Nigeria is a highly litigious country. There are so many cases pending before different judges of different courts. There are not enough judges to handle these cases that increase by the day. Overhaul of the system, constant feedback, and equipping the judiciary with modern technology and tools will help in no small way. It is about time that judges stopped taking notes in long hands. Stenographers should be provided to all courts and judges should be trained and retrained in the use of these modern technologies. Furthermore, arbitration and mediation should be encouraged in the resolution of disputes. Every disputes should not be taking to court. The Lagos Multi Door Court House is a good example that should be emulated by all. Reforms and innovations should be encouraged to meet with the demands of modernisation. New technology should be leveraged, and not just technology for data collection. Artificial Intelligence is fast maturing and with further advances in machine learning, standardised data collection can assist judges in forming judgements. The use of information technology during court proceedings for transcribing proceedings, e-filing, e-service, use of computers and mass storage devices for keeping records of cases in court must also be embraced. Lawyers should also be enlightened on the need to save the time of court by encouraging them to advice their clients against filing frivolous and time wasting applications to delay the progress of suit, and waste the precious time of the court as well as the need to be diligent and well prepared in prosecuting their matters. Lawyers, who charge per video conferencing is statutorily provided but rarely available in practice and infrequently used even if available. Accountability needs to be fixed on individuals causing repeated and needless delays in dispensing justice. Adoption of the fast track procedure, summary judgment, proper case management conferencing under the respective states Civil Procedure Rules in other states in Nigeria are highly recommended. What is your advice to the Federal Government on how to tackle the growing spate of insecurity in the country? Economic instability, poverty, unemployment rates are recurrent factors which encourage vices in the society. There should be continuous efforts in making the Nigerian clime conducive and the creation of an enabling environment for its citizenry in engaging in trade, business or occupation. The government must continue to engage all stakeholders in finding lasting solutions to the conflict between the herders and farmers in the country. There should be capacity building and the creation of competitive incentives for officers and men of the Nigerian army and other security agencies. There must be collaborative efforts of all security agencies in area of intelligence gathering. How do you think the Judiciary can help in the fight against corruption? According to Justice Akinila Aguda (of blessed memory), “It is almost axiomatic that the judiciary plays a preeminent role in any democratic dispensation. Indeed, a political system can be considered as on the basis of the extent to which the judicial arm is permitted to hold the scale of justice over and above the other arms of government. The source of authority of the judiciary for exercising this critical function is of course, the Constitution…” A judicial officer is expected to be a recluse of a kind, sparingly seen outside of the courtrooms; they have a closed circle of friends and deliberately avoid the camera and limelight. This no doubt would minimize the incidence of personal or pecuniary interest when adjudicating in corruption-centered suits. The judiciary must be seen to be truly independent without any form of interference by both the Legislature and Executive save in the area of constitutionally recognised checks and balances. Better funding is also advocated. The judiciary’s duty is to interpret the law, and in doing so they should decide cases brought before them in accordance with the provisions of the law and award deserving and appropriate sanctions where necessary regardless of whose ox is gored. The National Judicial Council, The Federal Judicial Service Commission and other State Judicial Service Commissions must continue to be strict in melting out appropriate sanctions against all erring judicial officers.