In an effort to upgrade the standard of learning and ensure a conducive academic environment, the Rector of the NTA Television College, Jos, an affiliate of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Dr. Barnabas Gbam has acquired a transmitter in conjunction with NTA Headquarters for the training of students in broadcast journalism and production. Apart from the ongoing installation of the transmitter, the Rector in the short span of his administration has also given the institution a facelift by completing the college library, procured books, journals and magazines, as well as renovated the school auditorium and the college clinic. Gbam, who has brought an exemplary leadership to the college, had also strengthened unity among the management, staff and students that had been a source of challenge when he took over as an Acting Rector of the college. Besides, further investigations by New Telegraph also revealed that the Rector has secured full accreditation of the diploma courses offered by the college by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), as well as accreditation of its degree courses by the National Universities Commission (NUC). The Rector, however, in chat with our Correspondent in Jos, said his dream was to reposition the institution as the leading Broadcast University in Africa. “Our goal is to become the pioneer Broadcast University in Africa. Right now, NTA College is the only television college in Africa. We have film institutes in Ghana and one in Cameroon, but the only college that specialises in television education is the NTA Television College, Jos,” he added. According him, the college is committed to providing high quality professional and specialised education in television production and journalism to foster and promote the best practices of the profession with a view to enriching the standard of television services not only in Nigeria, but also in Africa and the world at large. The Rector added that his administration’s vision is to position the college as one of the leading television training institutions in the world with pervasive influence in all areas such as information, education, cultural and entertainment endeavours, whose world view would consistently promote high values and objectivity in accordance with public interest and decency. Towards achieving this objective, the college recently trained more than 120 internally displace youths from the North-East who were ravaged by the Boko Haram scourge in order to transform them to national assets. The youths, he noted, were trained on camera operation and photography in collaboration with the National Commission of Refugees, as part of the Federal Government’s ongoing efforts to rehabilitate Nigerians youths in the North East. The participants, according to Gbam, were empowered with camcorder cameras each and memory card to take home and start their business. Meanwhile, the Rector also offered an automatic admission and scholarship to six of the youths for their best performance during the training.