 A few weeks ago, police in Kaduna discovered a religious training camp, where students were dehumanized. Several such training camps abound in Nigeria, especially in the core North. Many of those who went to prisons in Nigeria with half-baked religious beliefs by the time they served their prison sentences, many a time became religious but their habit or moral seldom changes.   Many of them become more criminally minded and brutal. Agnostics, Atheists and Free-Thinkers are almost absent from the Nigeria’s penitentiaries. The religions often teach the concept of hell, where there is eternal suffering of an unimaginable dimension. That belief is taught to every young child. In order for children to imbibe that concept that the people they care about will burn in hell for all eternity, they must turn off their compassion for those people. Even in religions that teach that hell is only for people who have done really horrible things, it still forces people to turn off compassion for other human beings.   Once a person, especially a child, learns to turn off his/her compassion and shrug his/her shoulders at eternal suffering, then being able to do same thing for real world, short term suffering is much easier. Religious individuals often feel as though God is guiding them in some way. This may be through prayer or just simple emotions, but, it allows individuals the ability that their emotions and desires are sanctioned by God, so when they gain the urge to do harm, they are more likely to convince themselves that they are justified, because they have such strong emotions that they feel are given to them, not by the neurons firing in their brain, but by God.   Religious often teach that it’s not easy for a person to have morality without the concept of heaven and hell to motivate them. This teaches people that they do not have the mental capacity to be good without an outside motivator.   If there is something morally wrong in society, or with an individual, the religious person has the ability to check up to God’s ‘Mysterious Ways’ this can diminish a person’s desire to make a difference, because they believe it’s all part of some great plan.   Religion often teaches belief in God and prayers as a moral issue, so, a criminal can believe that they atone for anything simply by worshipping God harder.   If people taught that heaven and hell are necessary for a moral society, then this implies that there is no inherent logic to being moral, and implies that there’s nothing to be gained on earth by being good and implies that there won’t be immediate emotional consequences for wrong doing.   Religions teach people to believe in a very specific set of spiritual concepts and believe that these concepts are absolute truth. However, they see other people all around them who do not share their beliefs, and often have other beliefs. The only way for many religious individuals is to maintain an absolute belief in their own concepts and to resist the potential joy found in other belief systems is to turn off their empathy for anyone who does not refuse to imagine things from other people’s perspectives.   People are often told that religion will draw them towards goodness, and some people take this to believe that it happens automatically, so they never come to realize that it takes willpower, and they don’t learn to work with their own emotions. They keep expecting it to happen simply by worshipping or reading a holy book. The concept of original sin re-enforces the idea that we are helpless to stop our criminal urges. Apostle Paul even confirmed that, in the Holy Bible. If a person already believes he/she is going to hell, and he/she thinks that there is already no way to redeem him, then, there is nothing left to stop him from committing whatever wrongdoing he wants and also commit suicide.   People learn from what they see and imitate others around them, especially, people who are built up as being greater than they are. This reaction can be entirely subconscious. The concept of evil can often be used as an identifier for individual human beings. It’s easy and convenient to believe serial killers are possessed with an intense and unbreakable evil brought about from a higher power. When you accept the idea that a supernatural evil is at work on this planet, it is easy for you to believe, for example, that your wife who cheated on you and broke your heart is in fact evil. This can lay the foundation for a person’s justification for revenge.    Sometimes, when a person is feeling emotions that may lead them towards crime, they will talk about it with someone and even, attempt to receive professional help. A religious person is more likely to seek out or be directed towards religious help and are more likely to wind up discussing their problems with individuals who do not have psychological training in crime prevention. There are numerous logical arguments not to commit crime or other harmful actions. This is not to discredit the emotional and spiritual argument against crime and wrongdoing. If you look at the long term personal effect of committing a crime and analyse it, based on pure cold-hearted or selfish logic, you will still find that committing most crimes just doesn’t make sense. It’s clear in our society or in the world generally, that violence and crime interests people.   It’s no wonder our movies are full of violence, and violent news gets significant more air time than peaceful news.   • Dr. O. Ajai, a public affairs commentator, writes from Lagos