The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) and the Assembly of Healthcare Professional Association (AHPA) have urged the Federal Government to allow healthcare provision in the country to remain a social welfare service for consumers of health. In a joint statement by JOHESU and AHPA, signed by the Chairman of JOHESU, Comrade Bio Joy Josiah, the two groups condemned and rejected the approval of the concessioning of health facilities by Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC). They however described the approval as a hurricane that would catalyse a descent to a bottomless pit of fruitlessness and unproductivity in healthcare. According to both groups, majority of Nigerians live in poverty, hence could not access or afford health care. “Any attempt to concession facilities in public health institutions compromises the lives of the vast majority of Nigerians and compounds their existing woes,” said Josiah, adding, “As a matter of fact, concessioning, privatisation or mutilated public private private (PPP) agenda at this point in the evolution of health endeavour in Nigeria is a direct invitation to morbidity and mortality. Josiah cited the example of the exploitative propensities of the Private Hospitals as the pricing index of drugs when private sector facilities were compared to public sector pharmacies and private sector pharmacy facilities. “World Health Organisation (WHO) studies reveal that there is a 193 per cent and 188 per cent differential in the baseline pricing of drug prices in Private Hospital facilities over what is obtainable in Public Sector Pharmacy facilities and Private Pharmacy facilities.” According to JOHESU and AHPA, this expressly defeated the goals and objectives of the National Drug Policy 2005, which advocated accessibility, affordability and efficacious drugs in our health system. At a time the life expectancy of a Nigerian is 54.5 years because of prevailing challenges in health, he stressed that the situation would only get worse because more Nigerians would not have access to affordable and efficacious drugs. “In similar vein, life expectancy will be jeopardised when the cardinal goal of National Health Policy, which also seeks accessible and affordable healthcare services was truncated,” added Josiah. The chairman of JOHESU noted that a scenario whereby presumably state of the art health facilities cannot be afforded by consumers of health makes them inaccessible contrary to the goals of the National Health Policy. Deriving experience from the global perspective, Josiah said a report of the Public Services International Research Unit (PSIRU), the Business Faculty, University of Greenwich, London, United Kingdom (UK) titled ‘Financing Healthcare: False Profits and the Public Good’ gave a most incisive and revealing insight into the un-endless demerits of Concessioning and Privatisation arrangements in Healthcare. The report stated that financial consolidation, escalating healthcare costs and demographic changes were placing universal public health care under increasing pressure. In this environment, the idea that the Private Sector was more efficient, effective and better able to fund healthcare than the public sector has been promoted. However, after almost 30 years of privatisation in the healthcare sector, the chairman of JOHESU said evidence shows that these claims do not reflect the evidence.