It is cheering news that Nigerians are getting more and more interested in the affairs of government and how they are being governed. In the social media, the amount of energy some people devote to discussing some inanities and frivolities often baffle my consciousness. Some even quarrel about the mundane, calling out the leadership of the country at every point in time to areas where urgent attention is required. This is the first time in a long while that Nigerian roads would wear these ugly looks, making them impassable and killing Nigerians on a daily basis. The latest carnage on our roads happened in Ehor, Uhonwode Local Government Area of Edo State, on Saturday, 19th October, when seven promising souls were plucked in their prime in an accident involving the Edo State Governor’s advance team and one Audi car. The cause of the accident would have been avoidable if the road was good. A lot of accidents these days are caused by bad state of the roads, as motorists often try to navigate through potholes and bad portion of the roads to make a successful journey. For three solid days last week, it was a complete breakdown and logjam between Okpella and Auchi at a particular spot that was eaten up by gully erosion and left to fester for a long time now. To compound the already bad situation, two heavy duty trucks that were trying to navigate their exit from that location, were not that lucky. They both fell and their goods covered up the little escape route that smaller vehicles were plying. For three days, it was a complete lockdown. The long queue of trucks was as debilitating as the logjam itself. The intervention of BUA Cement Company, Okpella, provided a temporary relief and created opportunity for those who had been arrested at one spot to ease themselves out. The story remains the same across most roads in Nigeria. The APC-led Federal Government is overwhelmed by the huge challenges confronting us, and the 20% capital estimates in the 2020 budget will further compound an already bad situation. This is one of the reasons why we need to ask the question: Are things really getting better? The Buhari presidency is one that has brought untold hardship on the people. A simple addition of all the budgets of PDP’s 16 years and APC’s four years explains the huge gap in terms of management of our national resources. In 16 years, PDP’s total budgetary estimates stood at N41 trillion, while within four years of APC, we have hit N40 trillion. This neck-to-neck rat race in terms of budgetary estimates does not explain actual releases, but the poor showing of the APC with respect to capital expenditure has been most worrisome. It doesn’t show a government that is actually prepared to confront the huge challenges head-on. At a time when our infrastructure are suffering from neglect, when most road’s life span has expired, we need to inject new blood into our infrastructural databank to birth new roads while rehabilitating old ones. A 20% capital expenditure that is often time not fully expended is a far cry from what we desire to set the tone for a holistic appraisal of dearth of infrastructure across the land. It is either the Federal Government are too busy with frivolities or that they appear to be at sea, understanding the dynamics that should drive a 21st century economy that is crawling on the canvass. The volume of economic accidents we have witnessed in the last couple of years is also an issue that should agitate the minds of all of us. Onitsha market got burnt and not a single fire fighter was seen in sight, yet when month ends, salaries are paid to firemen who haven’t worked. In Benin City, along Sapele road, Santana market also got burnt, and fire fighters were nowhere to be seen. Kano market got burnt last year and no remedy came their way. Aside from huge economic loss, what has been the response of government both at the federal and state levels to address the plights of those who were affected by this inferno? When you add up all the ills in the system; kidnapping, armed banditry, armed robbery, Boko Haram, and the general state of insecurity, what you get is a simultaneous equation that has acquired the addictive properties of a quadratic equation, with unfavourable integers. In addition, job losses, unemployment, under-employment and lack of creativity to open up the system for more productive engagements are telling signs of an economy that is in dire straits. The closure of the border against the normative principles of ECOWAS protocol is another time bomb waiting to explode. Only last week, Traders Unions in Ghana concluded plans to boycott made-in-Nigeria goods as a direct response to border closure. I have read a couple of well thought out articles and opinions on this subject matter but I am yet to be convinced how a country that is import-dependent will suddenly wake up and think that border closure will provide ready answers to smuggling and its associated vices, in a country with porous borders. Again, if we intend to improve imports through our sea ports, by closing down our borders, we ought to interact with our West African neighbours in the spirit of brotherliness to avoid unprecedented actions that make impact negatively on Nigerians. Government may clap its hands for taking a precipitate action in this respect, but small and medium level producers have been counting their losses. And this is no laughing matter. Before the government took this action, it ought to have a stakeholders’ interactive session to interrogate the pros and cons of the idea. That way, government and the stakeholders would arrive at a common ground that would soften the grounds for both parties. The unilateral decision of government to close the borders has its setbacks for those categories of producers who export their products to neighbouring countries and other category of persons who deal on imports from the sub-region. The market response to the border closure is the reason why government should have engaged stakeholders ab initio. The cost of food items especially rice has skyrocketted. Even staple food items that are locally produced have become essential commodities out of the reach of the masses. While the economy is still in dire straits, insecurity has worsened the situation across the country. Rather than respond in a manner that will enhance value for money, borrowing by this government has become its second nature. Little wonder that N2.48 trillion is being set aside to service debts in the 2020 budget. Are things getting better? Are things really going to get better, when our budgets keep increasing in figures, yet the quality of life keeps dropping? How did we get.to this sorry pass? In 2015, the expectations of Nigeria about a new dawn, were very bright and high. After four years, Nigerians are agonising in their millions with grinding poverty and acute unemployment. While government is talking about cutting cost of government, its action is pointing in the opposite direction. Having told Nigerians that there won’t be anything like Office of the First Lady, in August 2015, a position that is alien to our constitution, President Buhari in October 2019, just announced the appointment of six key positions to that office. It is like robbing Peter to pay Paul. It is like cutting cost elsewhere to be able to meet up with the running cost of the Office of the First Lady. The promise made by the APC to reduce the presidential fleet, from its bogus 11 airplanes to half the size, has been abandoned. No presidential plane has been sold. Other promises made by the APC in its manifesto have been abandoned. It is like making promises to win election and thereafter discarding the promise because elections have been won and lost. Corps members were promised increase in allowances before the election, till date, government is still vacillating on it. Fuel subsidy was seen to be a fraudulent practice in the days of PDP, today, it has assumed a monumental proportion. The billions budgeted year in, year out has remained a mystery to Nigerians. Our farmlands are deserted because of fear of attack by herdsmen. Nigeria, on a daily basis, comes with one ugly story, too many. At the eve of election, an anti-corruption government suddenly approves N10 billion to Kogi State. Yet, we talk about accountability and lack of funds. It is like arming the governor to buy over the election. We certainly cannot continue like this. Life is increasingly becoming difficult for the ordinary Nigerian and the earlier government rose to the occasion, the better. Devoting time talking about family squabbles inside the Glass house in the Villa will not put food on the table for the average Nigerian. We need utility-driven policies, initiatives and creativities that would usher in a new regime of ideas and ideals. We need to motivate the citizenry in the right direction to generate the right productive energy to drive governance. All these pretenses decorated with nepotism and hypocrisy are not the narratives that will usher in the new dawn. Certainly not. THINGS ARE TRULY GETTING WORSE.