•We’ll appeal the judgement – Kano PDP  Kano and Sokoto states governorship election petitions’ tribunal sitting in Kano and Abuja, yesterday affirmed the elections of Governors Abdullahi Ganduje and Aminu Tambuwal in the March 23, 2019 governorship elections in their states. The tribunal in Kano also dismissed the petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial candidate in the election, Abba Kabir Yusuf, for failing to prove his case against Governor Ganduje in the election. The tribunal ruled that the cancellation that followed Gama ward election and the subsequent rerun election were not only constitutional, but valid. But the PDP yesterday said in Kano that it would appeal the judgement, adding that its candidate should be declared the winner of the election. But a former Commissioner for Information in the state, Muhammad Garba, admonished the PDP to accept defeat and move on. Meanwhile, in a unanimous judgement yesterday in Abuja, Sokoto State three-man tribunal headed by Justice Bawale Abdullahi, affirmed the declaration of Tambuwal as the valid winner of the election that held in the state on March 9. The tribunal consequently dismissed the petition filed against Tambuwal’s election by the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ahmed Aliyu. The tribunal held that since the result declared by INEC enjoyed a presumption of regularity, the burden was on the petitioner to prove otherwise. It, however, discarded some of the documentary evidences the petitioner adduced before it on the premise that they were not properly certified. The tribunal noted that some of the witnesses made their written statements in Hausa language, the petitioner only tendered the version that was translated into the English Language, in evidence. In the lead judgement that was read by the Chairman of the tribunal, he held that the petitioner was unable to prove any of the allegations in his petition. Justice Abdullahi held that testimonies of most of the witnesses were based on hearsay. He maintained that the APC candidate, having failed to discharge the burden of proof that was placed on him by the law, his petition was bound to be dismissed. Other members of the panel that concurred with the lead verdict of the tribunal were Justices E. N. Anyadike and Kadi M. A. Oniye. But, the chairperson of the Kano tribunal, Justice Halima Shamaki, emphasised the difference between the outstanding votes in Gama ward was 128,000 compared to 26,000 votes which Abba Kabir Yusuf of PDP was leading with. She said because of this, there was the need for the election to be concluded through a rerun poll. Halima said further that INEC complied with all the laws, guidelines and the constitution in declaring the election inconclusive and reorganising the rerun. She said the petitioners failed to declare the scores of the March 9 election by tendering certified true copies, the petitioners’ participation in the rerun meant that they had waived their right to claim victory in the March 9 election. The justice added that most paragraphs in the petitioners’ final address were speculative and therefore were struck out. Halima added that the Gama result was written manually with a pen, raising the question with regards to its authenticity. But the state Chairman of the PDP and a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) in Kano State, Rabiu Suleiman Bichi, said: “We are appealing the judgement because we knew we are getting victory even as we missed out here in Kano.” Bichi said the same judge, Justice Halima Shamaki that delivered the judgement against them had been given judgement against them and that they had been winning at the appellate court. He said: “One of such judgement that she gave against us was the star witnesses’ case, but when we went on appeal in Kaduna, we won, they went to Supreme Court, and we still won.” But to Muhammad Garba, Ganduje’s former Commissioner for Information, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should accept defeat with dignity and shelve any temptation to appeal the verdict. Garba said in a statement that the PDP should not waste its time and resources in appealing the case they clearly lost. He said having been closely observing the tribunal’s proceedings, the PDP couldn’t prove its case and the case was thrown out for lack of merit.