…signs MoU with military, paramilitary λBuhari mandates apex bank to fund sector   T he Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has so far disbursed N50 billion to textile industry in Nigeria out of N100 billion earmarked for the sector resuscitation. Of the disbursed sum, N19.18 billion was granted to finance nine ginneries for retooling their processing plants, in addition to granting them access to finance at single digit interest rate. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, confirmed the amount last night in Abuja at the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN) and Ginning Companies and Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association and Armed Forces of Nigeria, Nigeria Police, Paramilitary Institutions and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The MoU was to give impetus to the president’s Executive Order 003, which compels both military and para-military bodies to source their official clothing locally. The event was witnessed by Governors Nasir El- Rufai (Kaduna), Ben Ayade (Cross River), Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe); Deputy President, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Issa Aremu; Chief of Air staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar and other top officials of Army, Navy and FRSC.  Asked how much CBN has committed into textile sector revamp, Emefiele said: “If we want to take the intervention from cotton farmers to the ginnery, we have spent close to N50 billion. And it does not end there. Some of the garment factories have also come asking for some facilities for them to also retool and also do more of sewing of these garments. I believe this will run to over N100 billion. “The important thing is not about the money; it is about the fact that we seize this opportunity to create jobs; we seize this opportunity for the industries that are moribund and dead to come alive again in Nigeria and, by extension, help to grow the GDP of the country.” Emefiele described the event as symbolic, which will restore Nigeria to its past feat in textile. “Today’s MoU signing sets a significant milestone for enforcement of Mr. President’s Executive Order 003 as well as foster closer business collaboration among these stakeholders on a sustainable basis. This ceremony also represents a landmark event being part of the measures the CBN along with other stakeholders such as the NACOTAN, Nigerian Ginners Association, Nigerian Textile Manufacturers and Garments Association, Armed Forces and Uniformed Services, have embarked upon in order to revive Nigeria’s Cotton, Textiles and Garments (CTG) sector through ensuring local sourcing of all uniformed services and hospital theatre wears.  “Nigerian cotton, textiles and garment sector has been facing very difficult challenges resulting not only in the closure of over 150 textiles firms in Nigeria, but also loss of over two million jobs beginning from the cotton farmers to the ginneries and textile firms. “Farmers and processors had to deal with low quality seeds, rising operating cost and weak sales due to high energy cost of running factories, smuggling of textile goods and poor access to finance. Smuggling of textiles goods alone is estimated to have cost the nation an import bill of over $4 billion annually on textiles and apparel.  “Like I said earlier, this led to a situation where most of the textile factories, all stopped operations and the workforce in Nigeria’s textile industry stands at less than 20,000 people today from about two million in the boom years. “In addition, a large proportion of our clothing materials are imported from Asia and countries in Europe. Today, we are here to witness a paradigm shift not only through well-crafted speeches but through dedicated and carefully planned actions that are holistic and will encompass every node of the CTG value chain,” the CBN governor noted. Recalling painstaking efforts of CBN to revive the sector, which began in May 2019, when the bank took the first step in Katsina State with the flag-off of input distribution to 150,000 cotton farmers, cultivating 150,000 hectares in 23 states of the federation, he said the cotton planted by farmers had begun yielding fruits ready for off-taking from the month of November. “This committee is driving the initiative to achieve self-sufficiency in cotton production and textile materials within a span of three years. In this regard, we have held consultative meetings with state governments on ways to reduce the operational cost of running textile factories within their respective states. “State governments have indicated their interest in providing captive power plants in industrial areas where textile manufacturers operate, in order to enhance their productivity and reduce the operational cost of running their factories. We believe that through these initiatives, all the businesses along the cotton-textile value chain can come alive again thereby helping to improve the economy of our states,” he said.