  INTRODUCTION Tears, Sorrow, Blood, Pains, Pangs, Anger, Hunger, Melancholy, Dejection, Hopelessness, Haplessness, Disillusionment, Poverty, Ignorance, Termites and maggots eat up the national edifice. Chaos and anarchy reign supreme, Impunity triumphs, Irredentism, cronyism, clannishness and nepotism strut around like a proud peacock. Corruption multiplies geometrically, ravaging the land. Nigeria is now the second most corrupt country in West  Africa and one of the 148 most corrupt in the world Rule of law is subsumed, human rights crushed Democracy is vanquished. Even basic civil liberties are suppressed and subjugated Judges are brutalised, humiliated and denigrated, for doing their jobs.  The Judiciary is weakened, traumatised, pauperised. The Legislators haemorrage the national purse with fantastic and indefensible out-of-the-world pay packets. The Executive acts imperiously, untrammelled, uncontrolled, like Louis X14 of France. The cabal holds the nation down by the jugular. Less than 20 people dictate the fate of 200 million Nigerians. There are no checks and balances. Absolutism, dictatorship, fascism, brutality, bestride our democratic space like a colossus.   Yet, the people, the Civil Society, remain docile, complicit, frightened and cowed. Mediocrity is enthroned in place of meritocracy. Hypocrisy, lies, revisionism, propaganda are elevated, celebrated and dressed in the false garb of truth and patriotism. Genuine criticism, dissent, opposition, plurality of views, are treated as treason, and at best as treasonable felony. Nigerians now murmur, rather than discuss freely. Soliloquy and monologue take the place of robust dialogue. Nigerians now live like walking corpses, like the living dead. The common man and woman languish in abject penury. The middle class diminishes. Industries relocate to neighbouring countries .Massive disinvestment becomes the order of the day. Nigeria, once upon a time the biggest economy in Africa and the 3rd fastest growing in the world, is today the poverty capital of the world. Parents now sell their children to survive and the children do likewise. Husbands kidnap wives and wives husbands, for cheap ransom. Insecurity becomes the order of the day. Boko Haram, herdsmen, kidnappers, armed robbers, hired assassins, control our highways, pathways and forest routes. Nigeria has been turned into a gruesome crimson field of bloodbath. There is mass suicide and homicide. Mass unemployment is the order of the day. Retrenchment becomes a norm. Education and certificates are racketeered. Children learn under uncovered roofs in rain, storm and sun, sitting on bare floor. Graduates roam the streets without jobs. Our beautiful daughters and sisters are sold into second slavery as sex objects. Young able-bodied men take to kidnapping, armed robbery, internet scams and otokoto rituals. Money bags are celebrated, no matter the illicit sources of their wealth. The church and the mosque are complicit in this societal degeneration. Morals, ethics, values, recede into the abyss of historical oblivion. Prices of food have gone out of the roofs, leaving the poor prostrate and defeated. The tail now wags the dog, the leaders molest the people whose mandate they utilise. They laugh the people to scorn, exploit them, beat them, scourge them, impoverish them and misuse them. God, where, when, how and why did we find ourselves in this scandalous state of nadir, doldrums and national calamity?  Nigeria at 59!!! A woman still crawling, flat- breasted, misused, dehumanised and degraded. There will still be sunshine at the end of the storm. Yes, a silver lining on a dark cloudy sky. God help us. THE $9 BILLION JUDGMENT DEBT THUNDER: IS NIGERIA IN A CUL-DE-SAC? (2)  INTRODUCTION Last week, we delved into this recent thought provoking issue, wherein, we dealt extensively on the facts of the case and the former Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Michael Aondoakaa, SAN’s reaction to the issue. Today, we shall continue with our discourse, starting with Malami’s response to Aondoakaa’s statement. MALAMI, SAN’S RESPONSE  Abubakar Malami, SAN, the Attorney General of Nigeria agrees in his reaction that: “The Arbitral Tribunal on 31st January 2017 rendered its Final Award against the Ministry of Petroleum Resources in the sum of US$6.597 Billion together with pre-award interest at the rate of 7% per annum effective from 20th March 2013 and post award interest at the same rate till date of payment.” He further agrees that: “Upon the Award, P&ID commenced recognition and enforcement proceedings of the arbitration award against FGN in March 2018 in both the United Kingdom (“UK”) and the United States of America (the “United States”). In view of the huge arbitration award, the current administration took positive steps in challenging the award, thus, the FGN is duly represented in the proceedings in the United States and the UK by the foreign Law Firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle LLP.” CENTRAL BANK OF NIGERIA (CBN)’S RESPONSE The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, described the contract leading to the judgment as a “fraudulent contract” between the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and P&ID. Emefiele noted that, contrary to its claims in the media, the foreign firm did not invest any money on the contract in Nigeria. “As a foreign company, if you are investing either in a contract or a project in Nigeria, there are various options you will adopt in bringing in your investment. “If you are bringing in capital, in which case you are bringing in the money, you will fill Form A and you will also collect a certificate of capital importation. “If you are bringing in machine or assets to execute your contract, then in this case you will fill Form M and also collect a certificate of capital importation to prove that you actually brought in money. “We have gone through our records, we do not have any information in our records to show that this company brought in one cent into this country and we have accordingly written to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission and the Intelligence Department of the Nigeria Police that are currently investigating this matter.” Okay, we have heard the Nigerian government’s side of the story. But, is that what the law says?  NOW THIS LEGAL ISSUES ARISING DISCOVERY OF “SILVER BULLET” TO SHOOT DOWN $9.6BN P&ID CLAIM AND PRIVATE INTERNATIONAL LAW  Suddenly, some Nigerians, especially of this government, laden with sentiments, have now said they have found a “silver bullet” to shoot down the $9.6billion world record claim against Nigeria’s assets by Irish company Process and Industrial Development (P&ID). The rock-solid defence, they claim, is contained in a UK law that gives immunity to Sovereign states.  UK’s State Immunity Act 1978 (the Act) bars UK courts from confiscating assets of a foreign state without the consent of that state, gives it a leeway in the matter. The Act allows a written consent of a foreign state before the enforcement of a judgment which could lead to seizure of assets or freezing of accounts. AND THIS  Proponents and supporters of this government claimed to have discovered a “silver bullet” to shut down the $9 billion debt. They rely on “Section 13(2) of the Act which provides that:(a) relief shall not be given against a State by way of injunction or order for specific performance or for the recovery of land or other property; and (b) the property of a State shall not be subject to any process for the enforcement of a judgment or arbitration award or, in an action in rem, for its arrest, detention or sale”.  They argue: “Pursuant to section 13 of the Act, state assets ‘shall not be subject to any process for the enforcement of a judgment or arbitration award or, in an action in rem, for [their] arrest, detention or sale’ unless the state has provided its written consent. For example, Gold Reserve Inc v. Venezuela [2016] EWHC 153 (Comm), finding that Venezuela had submitted to arbitration in writing by entering into a bilateral investment treaty (BIT) with Canada) or the assets in question are ‘in use or intended for use for commercial purposes’ (section 13(2)-(4)). These provisions apply in respect to states alone as defined in section 14 of the Act, and do not therefore extend to separate entities (see question 8).  “This provision is subject to sections 13(3) and 13(4) of the Act. Pursuant to section 13(3), a state may provide written consent to the grant of any relief against it. It follows that a state may consent to the grant of interim or injunctive relief against it; however, the mere submission to the jurisdiction of the UK courts does not constitute such consent.” (To be continued).  THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK  “I think whether you’re having setbacks or not, the role of a leader is to always display a winning attitude.” (Colin Powell).  LAST LINE  I thank Nigerians for always keeping faith with the Sunday Sermon on the Mount of the Nigerian Project, by Chief Mike Ozekhome, SAN, OFR, FCIArb., Ph.D, LL.D. I enjoin you to look forward to next week’s treatise.