Medical doctors under the employ of Lagos State government Wednesday raised the alarm over what they described as the imminent collapse of health services due to an acute shortage of doctors in hospitals across the state. While raising the alert at a press conference in Lagos Wednesday, the doctors under the auspices of Medical Guild pointed out that Lagosians should hold the Lagos State Government responsible as medical services have deteriorated to the level where some doctors were developing serious health challenges. The Medical Guild is the association of all medical and dental practitioners employed by the Lagos State Government and an affiliate of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA). The medical doctors queried the authenticity of medical service from a sick doctor, adding that due to the shortage a single doctor now sees more than 100 patients a day. Still warning that health services in Lagos would soon collapse if nothing was done urgently, they recounted that: “This avoidable situation is affecting healthcare delivery, patient satisfaction, mortality and morbidity rates and general health indices. “If nothing is done about this shortage coupled with brain drain with respect to the medical profession in Nigeria, the health service in Lagos State will soon collapse.” According to the Chairman, Medical Guild, Dr. Babajide Saheed, “We have less than 2,000 doctors in LASUTH, but we need about 4,000 to take care of the expansion and some specialisation that was happening there.  Generally, in the last two years, about 300 doctors were employed; roughly 160 have left the service.  For instance, at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Mainland, four doctors were employed, but six have left. Two from the newly employed and four from the number employed earlier.” Saheed consequently urged the Lagos State Government to urgently replace exited doctors as well as recruit fresh doctors to take care of the new hospitals and maternal and child centres across the state. On the issue of Primary HealthCare (PHC), the Chairman of Medical Guild urged the government to ensure that each PHC has at least a medical doctor in order to reduce pressure on the secondary and tertiary health institutions, and for the achievement of Universal Health Coverage (UHC). “The Guild also frowns at a situation in which public – private partnerships were instituted in some PHCs. We believe that individuals participating should build new health centres or hospitals to complement the inadequacy of PHCs in the state and that government, especially local governments should rehabilitate and equip two PHCs in a year.” Speaking in similar vein, the Vice Chairman of the Guild, Dr. Oluwajimi Sodipo identified emigration of doctors as the greatest challenge facing healthcare in Lagos, hence, the need to give incentives to doctors that are staying back as well as those deployed to rural far-to-reach areas. “In the United Kingdom (UK), there are over 200,000 registered doctors, but here we have never crossed 42,000 and out of that number half are practising abroad.  We have never crossed that.  It is a bad situation. “We need to find ways to encourage those that are staying behind. Many doctors are still here because of patriotism. “Most of the doctors practicing here are coming down with mental health issues and cardiovascular issues. “Again, no country can get it right without functional PHCs and 90 per cent of patients are at the PHC level,” he said.