  A s part of its policy of investing in critical infrastructure for a sustainable future, the Federal Government has earmarked the sum of N199.03 billion for various projects in the aviation, transport and road sectors in the 2020 Appropriation Bill currently before the National Assembly.   Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, disclosed this in a presentation of the breakdown of the 2020 Budget in Abuja.   Highlights of the budget proposal indicates that the sum of N1 billion has been set aside for the construction of the terminal building at the Enugu Airport while N10 billion will be deployed to the construction of a second runway at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja.   The Abuja airport runway project would include asphalt overlay, marking and lighting in compliance with air safety standards.   Similarly, the sum of N67.17 billion has been proposed for counterpart funding for railway projects including the Lagos-Kano, Calabar-Lagos, Ajaokuta-Itakpe-Aladja (Warri), Port Harcourt-Maiduguri and the Kano-Katsina-Jibiya-Maradi line which leads to Niger Republic. The counterpart funding will also be extended to the Abuja-Itakpe and Aladja (Warri)-Warri Port and Refinery/ Warri New Harbour as well as the Bonny Deep Sea Port and Port Harcourt rail projects.   In addition, the sum of N10.86 billion will be used for the rehabilitation of various railway tracks such as Port Harcourt to Makurdi, Kuru to Maiduguri, Makurdi to Jos and Kafanchan to Kaduna. This would cover the maintenance of tracks, including emergency recovery of coaches, procurement of spare parts (including lubricants) for the locomotives, coaches and wagons. It would also include the procurement and rehabilitation of locomotives and rolling stock, procurement of workshop equipment and rolling stocks, design, manufacture, supply, installation, testing and commissioning of electric overhead travelling cranes for carriage and wagons workshop as well as upgrading of signaling and telecom system on the Eastern Line linking Port Harcourt to Maiduguri. In the same vein, the budget has proposed the sum of N110 billion for the construction and rehabilitation of roads in every geo-political zone of the country.   This allocation is expected to take care of the counterpart funding for the dualization of the Makurdi–Enugu Expressway, the dualization of Akwanga–Jos – Bauchi–Gombe Road and the reconstruction of the outstanding sections of Benin– Ofosu–Ore–Ajebandele–Shagamu Expressway. Other road projects included in the package are the construction of the outstanding sections of the Abuja–Lokoja Road, dualization of Obajana Junction to Benin, Lagos–Shagamu–Ibadan dual carriageway as well as preliminary works on the approach roads to 2nd Niger Bridge linking Anambra and Delta states.