The Federal government yesterday said it has mandated its legal team to file an appeal against the United Kingdom commercial court order for a security deposit of $200 million to make the stay of execution of the $9.6 billion award given to Process and Industrial Development (P&ID) effective. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who stated this at a news briefing in Abuja, described the last judgment of the commercial court as somewhat a relief, but said the security deposit was not acceptable to Nigeria. Mohammed hailed the court for granting Nigeria the opportunity to appeal the earlier judgement, saying it had saved the country the embarrassment of losing $9.6 billion worth of assets to the Irish firm. He said that contrary to the opinion in some quarters, Nigeria did not lose out in the UK commercial court given the reprieve it got at the last outing. “For those who may still not understand the gravity of the judgement of the commercial court in London last week, let me say this; Had we lost our quest for a stay of execution and application to appeal in London last week, P&ID would by now be attempting to seize our assets all over the world. “Remember they boasted, before the judgement that they have started compiling a list of our assets which they will attach. But now, that’s an empty boast, thanks to the successes recorded in the court of law and the court of public opinion last week. “It was indeed a huge victory, and P&ID has every reason to be worried that the $9.6 billion arbitration award to it has a good chance of being overturned,” he said. The court had last week, granted Nigeria leave to appeal against the  enforcement of the judgement of $9.6 billion awarded in favour of  Process and Industrial Developments Limited over a failed gas for electricity deal. The relief granted by the court was, however, subject to the payment of the sum of $200 million to the court as security pending the determination of the appeal. Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, had on the spur of the moment, described the ruling as a positive development and an indication that Nigeria could escape the earlier judgement, which proposes to give $9.6 billion of Nigeria’s assets to the Irish firm. In the last couple of months, Nigeria had been embroiled in a fight with Process & Industrial Developments over a failed 2010 deal to develop a gas processing plant. Nigeria had alleged that the contract was won corruptly and the project was never meant to succeed, but P&ID had denied any wrongdoing. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) recently expanded its probe into the deal by making formal requests for assistance from Irish law enforcement and UK’s National Crime Agency, Ibrahim Magu, the head of the Nigerian agency, said in an interview in London. He was one of more than a dozen government officials to speak with Bloomberg on Tuesday. Nigerian prosecutors said they had evidence of two bank transfers totalling $20,000 made by Dublin-based Industrial Consultants (International) Limited, part of the P&ID group of companies, to Grace Taiga, a Nigerian government lawyer, who oversaw the award of the gas plant contract. The payments in 2017 and 2018 were made from an industrial consultants account at Allied Irish Banks and were purportedly for ‘medical costs,’ Bala Sanga, the lead prosecutor, said in the interview. Paddy McDonnell, a spokesman for Allied Irish Banks, said the bank did not comment on individual accounts. A spokesperson for P&ID didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on the latest allegations. Taiga’s lawyer denied that his client had been bribed. “How could there have been a bribe to facilitate the contract that was done in 2010 and now get paid in 2018 or 2017? It just doesn’t add up,” Wole Olanipekun, Taiga’s lawyer, said. The payments, along with Taiga’s email records, showed a ‘longstanding relationship’ between the government official and P&ID founder, Michael Quinn, who died in 2015, and his partner Brendan Cahill, Sanga said.