The Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank, Mr. Emeka Emuwa, has expressed the determination of the bank to focus on the development of education as the key component and active driver of national development. He stated this while flagging-off the second edition of the bank’s annual Education Festival Edu360 in Lagos. The three-day event, tagged “Education Beyond Walls,” attracted key stakeholders in the education ecosystem, including government officials, policy makers, teachers, parents, school owners, investors, students and other participants. Emuwa, who reiterated the Bank’s focus on education as a key driver of national development, however, said: “Our goal over the next three days of the Edu360 is to drive conversations and collaboration that will catalyse action that is necessary to move our education sector forward. This was as he added that scaling up government spending on public education is imperative, but to actually move the need to drive the impact, the bank believes that the key is to create the scope for private investments in the sector. According to him, the yearly event serves as a platform for collaboration among the education sector stakeholders, with the goal of accelerating development and much needed investment in the education sector. “Union Bank remains committed to supporting Nigeria’s growth by identifying and investing in sectors that are vital to shaping a better, more sustainable future for generations to come,” Emuwa said. At the opening ceremony were the Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, who represented the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was also represented by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Mr. Tokunbo Wahab and the Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mrs. Aishah Ahmad; the Union Bank Head of Commercial Banking, Mr. Kunle Sonola and other members of the Board of Directors. In his keynote address, the Vice President restated the possibility for the country to restore education to its pride of place, and not juxtaposed by entrepreneurship or wealth creation, or not looked down upon by certain groups in the society, but to be embraced by all stakeholders by working assiduously to deliver the irrespective responsibilities to empower the children and indeed, the future of the country. He added: “I want to use this opportunity to congratulate the board and leadership of Union Bank for this feat of investing in a platform that brings stakeholders together to discuss such important developments and trends in the sector.” Meanwhile, more than 200 teachers selected from government and private-owned schools have benefited from the free training sessions as part of the bank’s drive to up skill the workforce of the critical sector. The parenting panels and workshops, the COO, Strategic Effects Limited, Friday Atufe, hinted include various activities such as digital training sessions, coding and robotics workshops and STEM classes. The fair, according to him, also featured workshops and seminars that addressed sensitive issues concerning raising well-adjusted children in today’s world. Speakers and panelists at the event were Supo Shasore (SAN), Helen Marinho, Gossy Ukanwoke, Omowale David-Ashiru, Otto Orondaam and Henry Anumudu, among others. Over 70 exhibitors and partners including leading schools and service providers within and outside the country participated in the three-day exhibition.