N ational Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has predicted a better future for Nigeria, urging citizens to support the commitment of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari at building a better future for the country.  That was just as the former Lagos State governor said the challenges the country had overcome in the past was a recipe for confidence and courage to believe that Nigeria can achieve even more.  The APC leader’s charge was contained in his message to the nation on the occasion of the 59th independence anniversary. The statement was released yesterday in Lagos by his Media Office and signed by Tunde Rahman.  Tinubu said: “Today, we celebrate the 59th birthday of our beloved nation. We stand today with our feet planted firmly in the present, but with our gaze both on the past and toward our future. Looking back at the last 59 years, we have faced steep challenges; yet, have marked great progress nonetheless.  “What we have overcome in the past gives us the confidence and courage to believe that we can achieve even more as we cast our eyes to the future.  “This day that we mark is truly a day to celebrate the independence of a nation of resilient, strong and industrious people who have decided to join together in common purpose that each of us may enjoy a democratic prosperous and just existence. “As Nigerians, let us recommit our energies to building a better Nigeria and rededicate ourselves to the vision of our nationalists who saw greatness in this country and worked assiduously to advance it.  “The journey to our greater destiny has begun and I enjoin you all to support one another and President Buhari’s administration in this journey. I ask you all to remain committed to our highest national purpose, so that we may continue to strengthen our national institutions and our very country.   “I congratulate all Nigerians on this 59th Independence anniversary and urge you all to come along in the march to the Next Level,” he said.