…recommends Captain, DCO, others for further investigation T he August 6 killing of three operatives of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and two civilians in Ibi, Taraba State, would have been averted, had standard operating procedure been adhered to. That was the position of a seven-man panel of enquiry constituted to investigate the killing of the IRT operatives and civilians by soldiers of 93 Battalion deployed at a checkpoint along Ibi-Wukari Road, within the Ibi general area. New Telegraph recalls that the late police personnel – Inspector Mark Ediale, Sergeants Usman Danzumi, Dahiru Musa, as well as an informant – were among the IRT operatives that arrested a suspected kidnap kingpin in Ibi, Hamisu Bala (a.k.a Wadume), on August 6.  They were, however, shot and killed as they made their way to the Taraba State Police Command Headquarters in Jalingo, where they were scheduled to document report of their operation. Apart from the killing of the operatives, the soldiers were reported to have set the suspected kidnap kingpin free.  Though Wadume has since been rearrested by operatives, the development had caused a strain in the relationship between the Army and the Police. Worried by the incident, President Muhammadu Buhari had ordered the Defence Headquarters to set up a panel of investigation to unravel the circumstances surrounding the ugly development.  Consequently, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, had set up the seven-man Board of Inquiry (BOI) headed by Rear Admiral Ibikunle Olaiya. However, in the report submitted to the convening authority, the panel observed that there were infractions and poor communication between personnel of the police and troops of the Army. This was as the panel recommended further investigation of Captain Tijani Balarabe, who was alleged to have ordered the attack on the police operatives. The recommendations of the panel were conveyed in a statement yesterday by the Acting Director of Defence Information (DDI), Col. Onyema Nwachukwu.   Also, Sergeant Ibrahim Mohammed and Corporal Bartholomew Obanye were recommended for further investigation by the Army. On the part of the Police, the Board emphasised the compelling need to probe the role of the Divisional Crime Officer (DCO) in charge of Ibi Police Division, Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Aondoona Iorbee and Inspector Aliyu Dadje.  They are to be investigated for alleged complacency and necessary disciplinary measures. Further to this, the board of enquiry, according Nwachukwu, also recommended that Wadume be thoroughly investigated for alleged gunrunning and kidnapping and possible prosecution. “After a thorough and painstaking investigation into the incident, the BOI submitted its report to the convening authority observing that, there were infractions and poor communication between personnel of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and troops of the Nigerian Army (NA).   “It was also observed that there was non-adherence to the Standard Operating Procedure by both parties involved in the incident. “It further made some recommendations to the NA and NPF to forestall future reoccurrence and bring anyone culpable to book in accordance with extant laws. “It was also recommended that further investigation be conducted on Hamisu Bala for gunrunning and possibly kidnapping, in order to prosecute the suspect,” the panel stated. In addition, the board made a strong case for the establishment of “an Interagency Liaison Desk” by the Services and other security agencies, for harmony of activities.