Gedar Etefia is the director of Church Girl, a Non-Governmental Organisation based in Calabar, the Cross River State capital.  She is a mother of two and a graduate of Business Education, from the University of Calabar.  In this interview with CLEMENT JAMES, she speaks on her NGO and social issues. Excerpts:   Tell us something about your NGO, Church Girl. I actually grew up in church and I have come to realise that most girls have a lot of dreams, aspirations but they cannot actualise it because they lack the resources to do so and they lack the right mentorship to do so.  So the whole idea of Church Girl is to get as many stranded girls as possible, train them, mentor them and project them.  We want them to, at the end of day, be where they have always wanted to be.  We want to be able to give them the platform to become whatever they want to become, especially in equipping them in the entertainment industry.  You know most church girls are not into entertainment and when they get into it, they are no longer church people.  So we want to get them down there and still get them to maintain their values. Have you had any encounter with men before? Yes, a lot.  I actually did marketing for an insurance company and it is almost impossible to walk into a man’s office and you want to get an account or ask him to sign up for a policy without thinking that you can’t pay by way of doing some things.  That is first stuff.  Secondly, I have a relation who studied Theatre Art and then her parents refuse to allow her do movie acting because they believe she has to pay dearly with her body before she can a get a role.  She actually wants to sign up for a beauty pageant and they will say no; she will have to walk naked. Those are the very few experiences I have had and which I can remember.  The whole idea is to protect the girl-child who wants to be an actor, a model, a fashion designer or whatever.  We are here to protect them and guide them to get to the top with our mentorship and our training. In these days of child trafficking, how do you handle the girls? We are not actually housing girls; of course we are not taking them away from their parents.  What we do is that if we have to have a programme that requires camping, we actually going to make sure that all governmental paper works are done.  We are not going through the back door. Everything has to be done; all proper authorities have to be notified, parents and every other person concerned have to be notified.  We don’t believe in child trafficking even though we know that it is common.  I actually discovered when I was having a conversation with my team the other day that one of the reasons for child trafficking is because women have refused to mentor girls, so they just grab them and throw them in to work for them.  So the idea is not giving a girl a fish; it is teaching her how to fish.  And so child traffickers are simply grabbing these girls and making them feel that they feeding them; but they are actually destroying them.  We are hundred percent genuine, you can find us in our office, our website and of course, I am a co-Pastor of a church, one of the biggest churches in the city. What do you think mothers should do to inculcate moral values in their children? Well, the first thing we have to do, like I believe in training.  My first child is six and my second is three.  I teach them what they should know.  What I try to do is to get parents to be more interested in their children.  I know we work really hard especially this period when women also work.  When I was growing up, my mum was a teacher she was always back home at one o’clock and we were also back about the same time. That means she had all the time, but now it is not like that again.  Mothers actually work till six now, sometimes they come back very tired.  I know we get tired most times but what I am trying to say is that in the midst of the tiredness, take some time out and look at these girls again.  Talk to them.  We are putting up good programmes, like we have twenty one letters from mum.  It is going to be free and it is like mummy is talking is talking to you. You hardly see a mother these who will be honest to their child to say I actually did an abortion at twenty, I had my first boy friend at nineteen, I had the first sex at this period, and these are the things that happened to me; these were the mistakes I made.  Mothers don’t do that.  They want their daughters to see them as being perfect and that is the main reason we fall into the same mistakes our mothers made.  But if our mothers had told us that if a man looks at you like this, this is what it means and this is what you should do to get what you want from the man without him getting the things he wants from you, I think we will be more safer.  But we keep quiet and let me tell you, up until now I don’t know if my mother ever dated anybody apart from my dad.  She doesn’t just talk about it and most mothers are like that.  We want to take it upon ourselves to talk about these things with these girls.  We want to do close-up mentorship so that when these things come their way, they can actually overcome. With the dip in moral values, who do you think should be blamed? Nobody is to blame; everybody is trying in their own way.  I can’t blame the parents or teachers.  Everybody is trying but the truth is that we are not working together.  If we choose to work together as one, I am sure we will achieve more than we have achieved so far. Societal and family values are collapsing because of lack of concentration on the children.  Everything has to do with the internet and the internet influence on this generation is so gripping that they cannot actually escape it.  Nothing is censored; you do not decide what you see, it just comes up.  In any case, I would rather that we also use the internet to fight crime by putting up the right posts that the girls can run into.  We shouldn’t allow the wrong people to keep posting.  So our own responsibility is to make positive use of the internet.  And then parents should not also be swept off by the internet.  They should allow for one on one interaction with the children.