Nigerians were recently shocked with the announcement that the Federal Government is planning to return tollgates to the nation’s expressways as a way of generating income for the maintenance of federal roads. While announcing the proposal, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, had said that there was no law that stops government from having tollgates on federal roads, an indication that all is set for the return of toll plazas. “We expect to return toll plazas. We have concluded the designs of what they will look like, what materials they will be rebuilt with and what new considerations must go into them. “What we are looking at now and trying to conclude is how the back end runs,” Fashola had said after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting of Wednesday, October 2, 2019. This is coming 16 years after the regime of former President Olusegun Obasanjo ordered the removal of the tollgates, having ‘built’ the toll fare into the petroleum pump price. Part of the argument employed by the Obasanjo regime in 2003 was that the amount being generated from toll fees was not commensurable with the number of vehicles on Nigerian roads. This simply means that there was corruption in the system. Some of the ticketing vendors were also accused of privately printing own receipts and issuing same to the motoring public. Also, the removal of the tollgates was part of the logic that the then regime employed to cajole Nigerians to part with their hard earned money when the pump price was to be increased. Obasanjo’s regime made it clear to the nation then that toll charges had been embedded in the fuel price as road tax. That singular point became a genuine argument that was used to convince the then leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) under Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to give its nod to the increase in fuel price. While ordering the demolition of the tollgates in 2003, Obasanjo said roads should be maintained through revenue from the increase in fuel pump price, noting that the amount, about N63 million, being collected daily, was insignificant and that the toll plazas were a major hindrance to vehicular movements as they also constitute inconveniences to motorists. Today, however, after increasing the fuel pump price to N145 per litre, nearly all the federal roads in the country are in gross disrepair, to the disadvantage of the same motorists that bear the burden of the increment. As such, it was a rude shock to the nation when the government of President Muhammadu Buhari said it is considering the return of tollgates. From the public outcry that greeted the news, there is no doubt that there is a groundswell of opposition against the proposal. Though Fashola had argued that the new arrangement will curb corruption, owing to the electronic tolling that would be introduced, it is our view that the tolling system will continue to breed corruption and may eventually lead to the same old story that led to its removal in the first place. In that wise, there should be a reform of the road sector, as a lasting solution to road maintenance in the country, rather than tolling, which would be a burden on the public. On the surface, tolling appears to be a good option because roads need funds, but the corruption therein as well as the double taxation makes it a bad idea, as the return boils down to a burden on the already impoverished masses. Therefore, a permanent solution such as engaging the private sector on road rehabilitation, with government acting as the regulator, should be considered. The proposal, despite the outcry against it, if implemented, will amount to executive bullying, which cannot be justified under any guise. It will no doubt lead to increase in the costs of goods and services across the country because transporters will automatically add the fee to their charges while traders will, in turn, put the transport charges on their wares, goods and services. The multiplying effect will lead to more hardship on the already burdened masses. Already, there is an increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) from five to 7.5 per cent, which is an added burden to the exorbitant charges such as electricity tariffs and the proposed communication tax. This is coming at a time the same government is foot-dragging on implementing its N30,000 minimum wage agreement with the labour unions. Already, transporters are complaining that there are many unofficial tollgates, artificially created across the country by law enforcement agents, especially the police and Customs, which are used in extorting motorists. The impunity with which these uniformed personnel carry on without check is already a burden, so, adding another burden of official tollgates will further worsen the plight of the already impoverished masses. Implementing this policy at this time will make government appear not only to be anti-people, but also insensitive towards the same populace it was elected to protect. But if tolling the federal roads is the only option left for government, the policy must be well thought out to avoid the pitfalls of the previous regime. Again, since government is continuum, the road tax allegedly built into the pump price of petroleum products by the Olusegun Obasanjo regime should first be removed before any consideration could be given to the latest proposal.