SUBSTANTIAL Lenders’ cost structures remain major threat to earning sustainability   E ven as they struggle to cut costs, the nation’s five Tier I banks spent a total of N267.25 billion as personnel expenses, according to third quarter 2019 results released by the lenders. The figure is N19.74 billion above the N247.51 billion they spent in the corresponding period of 2018.  Access Bank, Zenith Bank, United Bank for Africa (UBA), FBN Holdings and Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank) comprise the banking industry’s first tier lenders.  New Telegraph’s analysis of the banks’ results for the period ended September 30, 2019, shows that only Guaranty Trust Bank reported a drop in its personnel expenses for the period under review. A breakdown of the results shows that FBN Holdings spent the most on personnel expenses. The lender reported that its staff costs increased by 2.70 per cent to N71.61billion in Q3’19 from N69.73billion in the corresponding period of last year. It was followed by Zenith Bank, which said its personnel expenses rose by 10.40 per cent to N57.07billion in Q3’19 from N51.69 billion in the same period of 2018.  Access Bank, which merged with Diamond Bank in April this year, said its personnel and rent expenses increased by 25.39 per cent to N56.07 billion in Q3 ’19 from N44.72 billion in the corresponding period of 2018. Also, UBA’s Q3’19 results show that its employee benefit expenses went up by 3.66 per cent to N55.20 billion from N53.25 billion in the same period of the previous year.  As earlier indicated, Guaranty Trust Bank did not report a rise in its personnel expenses. Rather, the lenders Q3 ’19 results show that staff costs fell by 2.92 per cent to N27.30 billion from N28.12 billion in the corresponding period of 2018. Industry analysts point out that in the wake of the slump in oil prices in 2015 and the subsequent slipping of the Nigerian economy into recession in 2016, banks had to embark on tough cost cutting measures, including laying off of redundant staff and shutting unprofitable branches as part of strategy to cope with the harsh times and remain profitable. In fact, data obtained from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) indicates that 8,663 workers lost their jobs in the first half of 2017. Specifically, the data showed that banks sacked an average of 360 workers every week from January to June 2017. The NBS also stated that in recent years banks have been employing more contract staff in their bid to cut costs.  Analysts also note that aside from sacking redundant staff and shutting unprofitable branches, most lenders have also tried to improve cost-effectiveness by optimising their various banking channels and reducing IT expenses. However, New Telegraph’s analysis of banks’ results in the last one year shows an uptrend in their personnel costs. Financial experts attribute the development to the country’s inflationary environment as well as the industry’s unsustainable cost structure. Commenting on banks’ full year 2018 results, for instance, the Chief Executive Officer, Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) Limited, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, stated that while most banks reported increase in profit after tax and earnings, “cost structure (is) a major threat to earnings sustainability.” The financial expert also noted that “Tier 2 banks have higher cost-to-income ratio.”   However, in a recent report entitled: “The Productivity Agenda – Moving beyond Cost Reduction in Financial Services,” PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) urged banks to look beyond cost-reduction and restructuring measures for profitability and long-term survival. The multinational professional services network contended in the report that traditional cost-cutting strategies come with inherent limitations, which it said, affect the overall impacts of the strategies on corporate performance and long-term sustainability.  It stated: “With banks struggling to improve their return on capital, many institutions are being forced to restructure and cut costs. Even in the asset management industry, where return on equity is higher than the financial services industry as a whole, there is downward pressure on margins and profitability. Cost cutting will only deliver so much. If financial institutions are to improve profitability in the long-term, they need to fundamentally improve the productivity of the enterprise.”  Commenting on the report, Financial Services Leader for PwC Nigeria, Sam Abu, said: “The cost cutting agenda adopted by many institutions since the financial crisis has, in essence, de-globalised the industry to make it more local or national, shrunk global footprints, divested businesses and shed clients.