Many countries and municipals  of the world,  including Lagos, Nigeria are considering innovative technologies for waste management to safe the planet earth and promote green economy. Dayo Ayeyemi reports  It is no longer news that indiscriminate  dumping of waste by residents and lack of adequate waste management gas have  resulted in excessive air, soil and water pollution. Already, these are threatening public health, ecosystems, and biodiversity, as well as accumulating immense quantities of waste in the world’s oceans. As the world’s cities produce about seven to 10 billion tonnes of waste per year and struggle to fulfil basic waste management requirements of 375 per metric ton of solid waste according to report,  it is estimated that that in every  30 seconds, a person dies due to diseases caused by mismanaged waste  such as diarrhea, malaria, heart diseases and cancer . These account  for between 400,000 and one million deaths per year. Besides, it  is assumed that plastics entering the oceans are killing more than  100,000 marine animals every year. Taking the bull by the horns, the global communities gathered  every October at a forum of World Habitat Day to channel ways forward.for pressing cities issues. As a result, the United Nations (UN-HABITAT) has dedicated   this year’s celebration to  advocate and raise awareness with a view to foster integrated waste management in the world’s cities as a step towards a circular economy. Besides,  it is using it to support the development of data collection for waste wise cities; facilitate monitoring of waste value chain together with cities and municipalities. To make these happen, the UN agency has  called on its partners and the world community to support collection of data on sources and sinks of waste in their  city,. It added that they must commit to integrated sustainable waste management and join the waste wise cities campaign. Connecting  the theme: “Frontier Technologies As Innovative Tool to Transform Waste to Wealth’’’, many experts, comprising policies makers and urban planners suggested how Lagos State Government  could leverage on technology to manage it’s solid waste efficient in order to promote cleaners and healthier environment. Waste composition Chairman, Senate Committe on Judiciary, Human Rights, and Legal Matters, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, noted that the Agenda 2030 for sustainable development particular Sustainable Development Goals 6,8,11,12 and 14; the  Paris Agreement  and New Urban Agenda considered waste management as an urgent and critical issue that must be addressed to assure the future prosperity and sustainability of the planet. In his analysis, Bamidele,who doubles as lead speaker at the forum put together by the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, said that vegetal matters account for 35.5 per cent of waste generation in Lagos He said : “According to the analysis of the composition  waste generation in Lagos by the Federal Ministry of Environment finaced studies by project consortium reveals that vegetal matters account for 35.5 per cent, ashes/dust 11 per cent, paper-9.8 per cent, textile -9.2 , plastic – 19.5, metals -4, glass-3.9, wood – 1.8, others -5.3 per cent. “Waste density was 180 kilogramme per cube and degradable component – 37. 2 per cent, composable component 65.5, per cent and combustible component -75.3 per cent.” Frontier technologies Sustainable polymer, nanotechnology, 3D printing, mobile applications, logistics platforms, digital dashboards, cloud computing, big data,  internt and smart bins are some of the frontier technologies being deployed for waste generation, disposal and management. Stating the advantages of application of frontier technologies in waste management, the senator said it would enable the authorities to gather  data on  waste flows in cities; determine the true costs of waste management and disposal, including the hidden environmental and health costs; while support planning and implementation for a circular economy. According to him, through  effective  and sustainable deployment of fornties technologies, cities could  become pioneers in conserving precious resources, saving energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, thus contributing to combating climate change. Turning waste into wealth in this context, he said meant the use of  untapped potential of waste materials. He said : “Money can be saved through rethinking what we consider waste and what we produce, refusing the production and use of single  items, reusing materials and water, reducing waste generation and recycling the unavoidable waste. “ As an opportunity for the urban poor to generate income from waste collection and treatment;  frontier technologies can be used to create online accounts and enable money flows from one part of the world to the other, from high-to low-incomes areas.” Given the growing global concern for the creation of decent, stable, hygenic and affordable livelihood, Bamidele said it has become  imperative for government  institutions,  private sector, ivory towers, reseach citadels as well as regional development partners to research and invest more to encourage the invention of durable and green-driven frontiers technologies that could be utilised as innovative tools capable of continually transforming waste to wealth. The senator enjoined all stakeholders of the governance process to key into partnerships that promote environment-friendly technological innovations with a view to unveiling and maximising the untapped potentials of waste materials. “It is  imperative that economic planning and budgetary projections by public institutions and corporate organisations must emphasise the need to invest more in the invention and promotion of frontier  technologies to enable us save the planet earth and, more importantly, our common humanity from recurrent and more devastating environmental disasters,” he said. Experts’ views Lecturer in the Department of Urban Planning, University of Lagos, Professor Leke Oduwaye,  stated that waste collection and management in Lagos State required more innovative measures. He pointed out that if the agency in charge of waste management in Lagos State had robust  data,  it would be easier to  move a lot of waste for production. He added that it was difficult to separate infrastructure from innovation. Former Permanent Secretary in the Lagos State  Ministry of Housing, Mr. Tunji Odulami, a town planner, warned that it was necessary to carry out the assessment of what the state had in terms of waste collection and  infrastructure before shifting to  frontier  technologies. “We need to upgrade the infrastructure before frontier technologies,” he said,  noting that drones  have become useful. According to him,  people must see waste as a resource and that the Lagos  Waste Management Authority (LAWMA)  should get  data, urging that  government shou;ld regulate  scavengers “because they  expose themselves to hazardous emission. There is need for the buy-in of everybody.” Former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development in Lagos,  Francisco Abosede,  noted that in every 30 seconds, people died due to diseases emanated from solid waste According to him,  80 per cent of plastic were  still around, while  30 per cnt of waste water was being discharged  in the ocean without being treated. “But there are fromtier technologies  telling us that there are better way of managing waste,” he said. In his comments, Commissioner of Environment, Mr. Tunji Bello, stated that there were slums that generated a lot of waste in Lagos. To combat slums,  he said it has become imperative to manage waste through frontier technologies, pointing out that China, and Thailand”s sign up were examples. He said : “We must start from physical planning through  proper urban planning. “One third of Lagos is below sea level. There is limit to where you can set up landfill site. This is the reason we have  Ojota, Igando, Agege dumps. In the next five years, we won’t be able to use our dumpsites again.” He noted that few years ago, Lagos authority commeced the conversion of  waste to fertiliser, urging the need to move forward. “We need to upgrade our planning, sustaining what we are doing because  14,000 metric tonnes are waste collected in lagos daily,”he said. Commissioner in the  Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Idris Salako, stated that Lagos State had continued to blaze the trail in innovative approaches to urban management not limited to the water sector. He said the state was aware that the degree or choice of management options deployed to waste was critical to climate change management, mitigation, adaptation among others, adding that it was implementing the green approach. LAWMA’s Managing Director, Dr.  Muyiwa Gbadegesin, said the problem of waste management was not logistics, pointing out that the real problem was human behavior. He noted that people threw away things that were valuable, adding that the agency had launched Blue Box initiative  to  allow people separate  waste from their kitchen. Governor Babajide Sanwo- Olu of Lagos State has  insisted that that his administration would go ahead on the plan to use technology to aggressively management of the estimated 14,000 tons waste generated in the state daily. Represented by his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, the governor, who explained that continued influx of people into the state calls for a review waste  generation and management, said  the  state had re-energised the solid waste management sector by promoting the concept of Reduce, Reuse and Recycle as the major thrust of waste management in the state. Last line Apart from cleaner and healthier environment, there is need for strong policies to support the waste to wealth initiatives of government to promote job creation  among the citizens.