It can only be passion and commitment that will make the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO) kick-off activities to herald the 19th National Women Conference in Lagos. This, they did with cleaning of drains and visiting patients in critical health conditions. Muritala Ayinla reports   “I am not going to be talking about medicine alone. It is going to be political-medicine, diagnosing the society and trying to take it to the next level. Lagosians shouldn’t be surprised seeing a First Lady cleaning the gutter or sweeping the street. It’s going to be work, work and work.” That’s  was the wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu while taking ov    er leadership baton  of the Committee of Wives of the Lagos State Officials, COWLSO from her predecessor, Mrs  Bolanle Ambode. Despite raging arguments over constitutionality of the office of the wives of presidents or governors in Nigeria, emerging developments in the country are pointing to the fact that women are indispensible in the lives of their spouses in the state houses. In Nigeria, wives of the Presidents and governors usually spearhead one initiative or the other aimed at empowering the vulnerable in the society. Their programmes are usually centered on women, children, widows and feminine related issues. They empower, sponsor and rescue those in need. They sometimes take care of the aged and other categories of the less privileged in the society, depending on the seriousness of the “First Lady” as they are usually called. In Lagos, the nation’s commercial capital, the name “COWLSO” rings a bell. It’s is a community based gender organisation, working to complement the effort of the Lagos State Government to promote child healthcare, empower women to discover their hidden treasures and protect the environment. Usually headed by the wife of a sitting governor, COWLSO was founded in 1974 by the wife of the first Military Governor of Lagos State, Mrs. Funmilayo Johnson. Today, the association has achieved and still achieving its set objectives through interventions and pro-people projects through all the wives of the democratically elected governors and military administrators. Speaking while addressing journalists on the activities lined up for the 19 edition of National Women Conference in Lagos, wife of the Lagos State Governor, Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu  said that  the theme of this year’s Conference was strategically framed to drive the T.H.E.M.E.S which is the six-pillar developmental  agenda of the administration. According to her, the theme of this year’s COWLSO Conference is titled: “UNLEARN, LEARN AND RELEARN: 21ST CENTURY WOMEN’S T.H.E.M.E.S PERSPECTIVES/APPROACH.” Harping on the need for women in the state to join hands with their men counterparts in the task of making a cleaner, safer for residents, Mrs Sanwo-Olu who led members of COWLSO in the cleaning and desilting of drains in Ikeja Local Government, it was time Lagosians learn, unlearn and relearn better habit of taking care of their environment. “Come rain, come sunshine, we women of COWLSO are ready to support our husbands to ensure that the ideals of this government are delivered in order to have a greater Lagos. Transport, traffic and environment management is paramount to this administration. So, we are all in it together, our slogan is together, we will work to ensure greater Lagos.” According to her, if everyone develops special interest in the environment and conscious of waste disposal habit, Lagos environment would be better and cleaner, adding that, “it is very important to educate our populace right from kindergarten up to the university level and community leaders that cleanliness is close to Godliness. It starts from the home and in the schools; we should ensure that our environment is clean. The leftover food should be kept in the black nylon bag while the re-usables and recyclables such as the water bottles and the rest should be kept in the purple nylon bags that are being distributed across the state.” Mrs. Sanwo-Olu, who also led the awareness walk from Ikeja to the State House, Alausa, used opportunity to join the rest of the world to celebrate the International Day of the Girl-Child, which was marked across the globe. She said the present administration is deeply committed towards ensuring that all the issues affecting girl-child are addressed frontally with the required vigor, zestfulness and determination. “T.H.E.M.E.S, as we all know, is the policy thrust of the present administration of Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu which stands for Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; Making Lagos a 21st Century Economy; Entertainment and Tourism; as well as Security and Governance. On the women conference, she added that it is the tradition of the conference to strategically empower women to contribute positively to the development of the State and Nigeria at large, saying that this year’s theme was carefully selected in line with the vision and aspiration of the present administration in Lagos State to bring about greater Lagos of our dreams. She hinted that wife of the President and First Lady of Nigeria, Hajiyah Aisha Buhari, has graciously accepted to be the Mother of the day and would declare the Conference Open while Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State, is the Special Guest of Honour at the opening Ceremony, while his counterpart from Nasarawa State, His Excellency, Governor Abdullahi Sule is the Special Guest of Honour at the Closing Ceremony. She added that buses will equally be available to convey participants who would be going back to their various homes and destinations after the gala night. Speaking during a courtesy visit to LASUTH as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of COWLSO, Dr Sanwo-Olu who is the Chairman of the Committee said it was important to make the right investment in healthcare delivery to play up the health of the people, and also support the needy. She said, “We decided to do our CSR here; this is Ayinke House in LASUTH. We are hoping that we would send the message down to the people that there is need for us to invest in our patients, as well as invest in our doctors and nurses so that they can deliver good healthcare to our people in Lagos State which is one of the key pillars of the development agenda of the government of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for a greater Lagos. “We have come here and we have identified something we can take up as our project and that is endowment fund for the Pediatric Surgeries that are being done here. Already, the Lagos State Government is doing 0-12 free healthcare for children but we need to also partner with them to do endowment fund and encourage a lot of people to also partner with us.”