While organised labour continues to battle government at all levels over welfare of workers, especially as regards remuneration, the case remains different as over two million state civil servants are engaged without group life insurance. Sunday Ojeme reports   Nigerian civil servants, especially those at the state level are currently in a fix. This reality will actually dawn on them either in retirement or if, unfortunately, they encounter an accident that may end up taking their life or rendering them permanently or partially disabled. Two factors are currently responsible for the above scenario; the first being the poor remuneration as well as the absence of any group life insurance cover. Minimum wage battle At the moment, organised labour is still battling to ensure that state governors pay the new minimum wage of N30,000, which in effect is not even enough to guarantee any savings for retirement. While the salary still remains very poor, the group life insurance scheme that should guarantee compensation for the workers has remained lacking over the years in all the states of the federation except Kaduna, where the Governor Nasir el-Rufai has continued to make the difference. Just last week, organised labour finally settled the new minimum wage controversy, especially as regards the consequential adjustment with the Federal Government. While the latter had agreed to pay the arrears that accrued over the period the flak lasted, most state governors are yet to come clear with their actual position on the wage deal. Overtime, they have all proven not to be trustworthy especially with regard to workers’ welfare considering the fact that they had collected series of bailouts from the Federal Government without deploying same for salary payment, which bulk of the money was made for. While organised labour moves to tackle the state governors headlong in the next couple of days, the civil servants still remain at the mercy of their employers as far as group life insurance is concerned. Poor insurance records As it is at the moment with information from the National Pension Commission (PenCom), 35 out of the 36 state governors may have tactically exposed their workers to various risks without adequate compensation in the event of catastrophe. Findings by New Telegraph revealed that apart from the state chief executive officers failure to fully sign into the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), they have also failed to insure their workers, a situation that would deny them and families members the actual compensation in the case of disability or death while still in employment. According to provisions in the Pension Reform Act 2014, states are expected to enact laws on CPS, establish pension administrative structure, register employees with the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) of choice in line with the provision of state law, commence remittance of pension contributions and well as purchase group life insurance cover for employees. In the current dispensation, only Kaduna State out of the 36 states has achieved full compliance with the Act. Exceptional/partial compliance The Commission revealed that in compliance with the law, the state amended the state’s law on CPS in 2016, established a pension bureau, registered employees with PFAs while remittance of pension contributions is regular and up to date. Other areas of compliance include actuarial valuation, Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption, Fund Account (RBBRFA) opened with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), funding of accrued pension rights account consistently with five per cent of total monthly wage bill as well as valid Group Life Insurance cover for civil servants. Recall that this newspaper had revealed that at least 10 newly elected governors would have to battle huge pension liabilities left behind by their predecessors. The first quarter report by the Commission revealed that although majority of the states had shown unwavering interest in CPS, current findings revealed that only 24 states have actually enacted laws on the scheme, which are substantially in tandem with the provisions of the PRA 2014, while six other states including Kwara, Benue, Plateau, Cross River, Borno and Akwa-Ibom have drafted bills and are currently undergoing the legislative processes towards their passage into laws. The states are, however, yet to remit a dime to PFAs on behalf of the civil servants, contrary to full scale implementation by only five states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The 10 new governors that are joining to battle the process include that of Borno, Babagana Zulum; Gombe, Inuwa Yahaya; Imo, Emeka Ihedioha; Kwara, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, and Nasarawa, Abdulahi Sule. Others are Niger, Abubakar Bello; Ogun, Dapo Abiodun; Oyo, Seyi Makinde; Yobe, Mai Mala Buni; Zamfara, Muktar Idris, and Bauchi, Bala Mohammed. A document obtained from PenCom revealed that out of the 24 states with pension laws on the CPS, only five states, Lagos, Kaduna, Ondo, Edo, Ekiti, Anambra local government and the  FCT are currently remitting both the employer and employee pension contributions of their employees while four states namely Zamfara, Kebbi, Rivers and Anambra remit only employee portions of pension contributions of either the state or local government employees. The CPS is pursuant to the enactment of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014, which mandated the participation of employees of the public service of the FCT, states and local governments as well as the private sector in CPS. Engagements To ensure full participation, PenCom had consistently been engaging various state governments, trade unions, relevant stakeholders and the general public on the full benefits of the CPS with a view to bringing them to full implementation of the scheme. Following the commission’s drive, as many as 24 states have so far enacted laws on the CPS in tandem with the provisions of the PRA 2014 while six other states viz Kwara, Benue, Plateau, Cross River, Borno and Akwa-Ibom have drafted bills and are currently undergoing the legislative processes towards their passage into laws. On the other hand, three states, Jigawa, Kano and Adamawa, have embarked on the Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme while Bauchi and Katsina states have also drafted pension reform bills on the CDBS. Yobe State has, however, decided to continue with the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS). According to PenCom, “on the determination and funding of the past service benefits of the employees (accrued rights) in states that have adopted the CPS, seven states and the FCT have conducted Actuarial Valuation while Kaduna, Osun, Delta, Lagos States, Anambra Local Government and the FCT are funding their Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Accounts (RBBRFA). “However, only Delta, Kaduna and Osun states, Anambra Local Government and the FCT have opened RBBRFAs for domiciliation of their employees’ accrued rights. On compliance with the requirement for the procurement of a Group Life Insurance Policy for workers under the CPS, only Kaduna State and the FCT currently have valid Group Life Insurance policies for their employees. Similarly, Lagos, Kaduna, Delta, Osun states and the FCT have commenced a hitch-free and timeously payment of pension contributions under the CPS.” An update on the engagement between the Commission and state government has further revealed that the Commission continued its engagement on the implementation of the CPS through interactive sessions, trainings and workshops. In the process, the Commission held a meeting with officials of Jigawa (state and local governments) Contributory Pension Scheme. The meeting was convened to review the commission’s comments on the Trust Deed Governing the administration of the Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme in Jigawa State. At end of the meeting, the delegation expressed appreciation to the commission for its input and promised to incorporate the comments into the Trust Deed and resubmit for the commission’s review. In the same vein, a delegation from Zamfara State, led by the Head of Service met with the commission to notify it of the re-enactment of the State Pension law and solicited the commission’s intervention to facilitate the refund of employees’ pension contributions by the PFAs. The commission, however, cautioned the state on the implications of adopting a Contributory Defined Benefits Scheme and advised the state to forward to the commission a comprehensive schedule of all beneficiaries with their individual bank account details on a PFA-by-PFA basis and subsequently request the PFAs to refund employees’ contributions. It also paid courtesy visits to the governors-elect of Lagos and Bauchi states. The meeting was to appraise them on the administration of the CPS in their states. Last line As it is, Nigerian workers, especially those in public service, still have a long battle to fight with their employers as the build-up to their retirement remains threatened, following government’s consistent failure to place their welfare in the right perspective for now and in the future.