Renowned lawyer and activist, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) has said that tertiary education is the cornerstone for Nigeria economic growth and national development. He stated this while delivering the 9th Convocation Lecture of Caleb University, Imota, Lagos State at the graduation ceremony, which held recently. The lawyer added that training of students in universities is vital for both formal and informal education for the onward transmission to building a knowledge economy, new challenges in life and for establishing a civic duty to the society. Falana, however, said that it seems that institutions of higher learning have eluded the cross border or global dimension of the changing global landscape, especially in relation to knowledge. “Thus, a striking question is how we implement policies for the openness to new ideas, and for setting up institutions to promote competitions.” He said the university ought to have prepared the graduates to grapple with the challenges of life. “Bu due to lack of opportunities and abuse of academic freedom the education acquired here has partially prepared the graduates to face the vicissitude of life.” The lecturer therefore said for Nigeria to find its unique way of gaining impressive achievements in economic growth and poverty eradication, political departments should constantly monitor the political system, track budget performance at the federal, state and local government levels in order to ensure even and balanced development of all areas of the country. Earlier in his speech, the Chancellor of the university, Brig Gen. Mobolaji Johnson (rtd) charged the graduates to remain worthy ambassadors of the university wherever they find themselves, “always uphold the truth, holiness and above all, modesty in all that you do. The Pro-chancellor, Prof. ‘Fola Tayo in his speech congratulated the graduating students urging them to make use of what they have learnt in the university for the development of the country. The Acting vice-chancellor, Prof. Nosa Owens-Ibie in his convocation address said the imperative of building a world-class university and to make the university an unmatchable aesthetic showpiece, demands the growth of all elements of the university dream, simultaneously, systematically and holistically. Giving the highlights of the graduating students, the VC said compared to 409 graduates in 2017, and 477 graduates in 2018, 733 students are graduating at the convocation this year with 24 first class, 235 second class upper division, 255 lower divisions and 30 in third class. The postgraduate had 19 distinctions, 160 pass with the overall best graduating student this year is Otibhor Imuse with CGPA of 4.85 from the college of Pure and Applied Sciences and the overall best graduate at the post graduate level is Temitope Adedayo-Ojo with CGPA of 4.96.