C onsumers’ overall confidence index rose to 3.8 points in the third quarter of this year, up by 2.3 points compared with the index in the corresponding period of 2018, according to the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Consumer Expectations Survey (CES) Q3 2019 report. The report, which was posted on the apex bank’s website yesterday, attributed consumers’ favourable outlook to, “improved family income and family financial situation.”  It also shows that the consumer outlooks for the next quarter and next 12 months were positive at 22.8 and 31.5 points, respectively and  attributed this to the “expected increase in net household income, an anticipated improvement in Nigeria’s economic conditions and expectations to save a bit and/or have plenty over savings in the next 12 months.”  However, despite their optimistic outlook, most respondents, according to the report, expect prices of goods and services to rise in the next 12 months, with an index of 25.0 points. It stated that the major drivers for the expected increase in prices include the purchase of appliances/ consumer durables, savings, education, purchase of car/motor vehicle, purchase of house and transportation.  Similarly, the report stated  that the overall buying conditions index for big-ticket items in the Q3’19 stood at 30.3 points, adding that this indicates that most consumers believed that the current quarter was not the ideal time to purchase big-ticket items such as  consumer durables, motor vehicles and houses.   Likewise, the overall buying intention index in the next twelve months stood at 36.2 index points, indicating, according to the report, “that most consumers do not intend to buy big-ticket items in the next 12 months.”  It added that the buying intention indices for consumer durables, motor vehicles and houses were below 50 points, an indication that respondents have no plans to make these purchases in the next twelve months.  On the borrowing and exchange rates outlooks for the next 12 months, the report stated that: “With indices of -6.2 and 13.9 points, consumers expect the borrowing rate to fall, but expect the naira to appreciate in the next 12 months.”  In addition, the report shows that the unemployment index for the next 12 months remained positive at 21.8 points in Q3 2019, indicating that consumers generally expect the unemployment rate to rise in the next one year.