CHUKWU DAVID reports that the threat by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, that the apex Assembly will give zero budgetary allocation to any Ministry, Department or Agency (MDA) of government that fails to honour Senate’s invitation for budget defence, is yielding positive result in the ongoing 2020 budget defence process   In previous assemblies, budget passage had always dragged for many months after being presented to the joint session of the National Assembly by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. However, delay in budget passage at the National Assembly became worse in the Eighth Assembly, when the relationship between the apex legislative institution and the executive was most acrimonious. The reason could be traced to the frosty relationship between the executive and the leaderships of the two chambers of the National Assembly, which led to mutual suspicion and distrust between the two arms of government, with each trying to frustrate the other. Senator Bukola Saraki and Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara had emerged the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the Eighth Assembly respectively, contrary to the wishes of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Presidency. Public affairs analysts believe that this was responsible for some heads of the agencies and ministries’ disrespecting the National Assembly and its resolutions, particularly invitations for budget defence or any other thing whatsoever. For instance, in March 2018, following rampant failures of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to appear for budget, the Senate, in a resolution, threatened to pass the 2018 budget without submissions from recalcitrant MDAs. The threat followed the observation made in plenary by the then Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriations, Senator Sonni Ogbuoji, who told the Senate that majority of MDAs refused to turn up for their budget defence as required by law. He said: “Majority of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies are not coming forward to interface with the standing committees. Some of the ministers will tell you they have a team, they are going outside the country and because of that the MDAs are not fully ready. “So we don’t have the reports yet. We believe that when the MDAs come forward, our colleagues will be able to finish their work. Some of the committees are unable to do their work. When they screen what they have brought, they will ask them to go back to us but they don’t come back. “That is really delaying the work for majority of the standing committees and that is why up till today, we don’t have a comprehensive report.” Saraki who expressed serious concerns about the attitude of the MDAs, said that the Senate was prepared to conclude the process of the 2018 Appropriations Bill to ensure its passage but regretted that the MDAs were not cooperative. He noted that the perception of the public was that the National Assembly was deliberately delaying the budget when the contrary was the truth. Similar experience was also witnessed during the 2019 budget defence hearings with the MDAs. Many of the heads of the establishments failed to honour invitations by lawmakers as and when due, leading to serious delay in passing the document. Having witnessed this anomalous attitude of the MDAs towards the National Assembly, and not willing to encounter a repeat of the experience, the Senate cautioned heads of the MDAs not to indulge in the ugly record of the past. President Muhammadu Buhari, had on October 8, 2019, presented a budget of N10.33 trillion estimates for the 2020 fiscal year to a joint session of the National Assembly, and also appealed to the members of the apex Assembly to expeditiously consider and approve the money, to facilitate early implementation. The National Assembly had resolved to return the country’s budget cycle to January to December calendar. In keeping with this decision, the Senate immediately swung into action, by commencing debate on the general principles of the bill barely 24 hours after it was laid by the President. The Senate also concluded debate on the Appropriation Bill within one week and passed it for second reading as well as committed it to the sub-committees of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, to engage the MDAs on defence hearing sessions. However, when the Bill passed for second reading two weeks ago, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, gave the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) two-week ultimatum to appear before the Senate Standing committees to defend their budgets or risks zero allocation. The apex legislative chamber also passed a resolution, mandating the sub-committees on Appropriations to compile their reports on the budget defence with various MDAs and present to the chamber in plenary within two weeks. When Lawan was giving the ultimatum, he said that the window for budget defence for MDAs would end by October 29, and warned that any MDA that failed to appear before the date should forget about budget defence and prepare to go with zero budget. He also advised the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) to present its budget proposal on time, insisting that failure to present the budget would amount to non-provision of funds for the commission to spend for the 2020 fiscal year. He said that the Senate would no longer tolerate MDAs which spend funds without appropriation, as has been the experience in the past, when many revenue-generating agencies refused to subject their budgets to National Assembly scrutiny. He said that the Senate had put November 5, as timeline for it to conclude matters relating to budget defence, to ensure that the money bill would be passed in good time, probably before the end of this year. The President of the Senate urged all the committees to work closely with the Appropriations Committee to meet the set date, and make a very serious departure from previous practices, when budget passage would drag into half of the fiscal year. He said that it was time for the National Assembly members to show that it could pass the budget before the end of the year, and accordingly encourages the executive arm to ensure early and full implementation of the budget. It is however, important to note that, following the threat by Lawan to punish defaulting MDAs with zero budgetary allocations in the 2020 fiscal year, heads of these agencies have been responding to invitations for their budget defence. Therefore, it is likely that the Senate, and indeed the National Assembly may conclude the budget defence either this week or next week, as there has not been much reported cases of disloyalty to invitations by the MDAs.