Senator Chukwuka Utazi, who is a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and represents Enugu North Senatorial District, is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Primary Health and Communicable Diseases. In this interview with CHUKWU DAVID he speaks on some national issues, especially the health sector and how it can be turned around   As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Primary Healthcare and Communicable Diseases, what is your impression about the state of the nation’s primary healthcare system?  The state of the primary healthcare in Nigeria is the state of all the challenges facing this country. It is not different from any of the challenges facing us. Most things are not working. Most communities, far flung communities that are in the rural areas do not have the deserved attention that they should have in terms of provision of health facilities to them. You see, the universal health coverage is still a mirage, a far cry from the intended goal of making sure that wherever you are located, you have access to medicare. And the way we manage our system as represented in the 1999 Constitution (as amended) has its own problems. The local government areas are supposed to be within the domains of the state and the local governments but the Federal Government is also handling this job there. I have my issue if we want to talk about constitutional amendment. It’s an area that is attracting my attention. The issue of primary healthcare is the same issue you have with the universal basic education, where the primary schools are in the local government areas, and those local governments are within the states, and the Federal Government is also having interventions there.   This practice has its serious challenges. Anybody who is planning and staying at the Federal Government level, no matter how detailed he is, cannot get it right from Abuja to the far corners of the country. So, the states and the local government areas where they are should be in a better position to do many things; and that is why after my briefing here, there are so many uncompleted primary healthcare projects being done by the federal government. They came here and gave me all the stories, and I asked them to go back and do a compilation, giving the full details state by state so that we know about them and not just come here and be speaking about them based on estimation. I want the actual facts and figures. So, I am still waiting for the primary healthcare office to furnish the committee with facts and figures.   You appear to be saying that the Federal Government is meddling in the management of the primary healthcare. Is the sector not in the concurrent list in the Constitution?   It is a concurrent legislation; the Federal Government has access, the state government has access. But the issue is that between these interventions coming from the state and the Federal Government and the local government area, there is a big problem. Our people say that a jointly owned goat most of the time goes hungry. So, when the Federal Government is involved; the state is involved and the local government is involved; the tendency is that negligence will be there. So if we want to look at the constitutional amendment, we have to situate it within the area where it is, and such monies should be given to them directly. But that is that at that level. Now, for us here, part of the duty is that we are making effort with the Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency, who is working very hard and hand in glove with his team. He is very conscious, very hardworking and dedicated to his duty.   We just returned from a meeting we had in the Royal College of Physicians at St. Andrews, London, where we faced the World Health Organizations Independent Monitoring Board, composed of donor agencies that are concerned with the eradication of polio in the continent of Africa and especially as it concerns Nigeria. We discussed these issues under the primary healthcare and what are the interventions we are expecting from these donor agencies that have been helping us one way or the other. We gave them our report that for the past two years, we don’t have record of outbreak of polio in the country, and they are very happy about that. But that is just one of their problems. We still want the donor agencies to help and come to our aid in other areas we are having health challenges. It is a serious issue that people in the rural areas are not having the attention they should have. This is why you see people in the villages dying as a result of diseases that will cost them N5,000, N1,000.   You build health centres in the villages and no doctor wants to go there because there is no electricity. He can’t send his children to attend primary school in such areas. There is lack of infrastructure in all parts of the country. How many times do you have electricity in the cities in a day talk less of people who are rural areas, who resort to lanterns as a source of light? No qualified nurse wants to live there. You just manage with small health personnel such as auxiliary nurses or health officers that attended school of health technology in the states. But those who have B.Sc in Nursing will not be found there because nobody wants to live in the village. This is a very big challenge. In the northern states that we have challenge in the IDPs, the story is worse because if you go there and see the way the people are clustered in the area under the elements, rainfall and the scorching heat of the sun, and having continual makeshift accommodation, you will pity them. They don’t have clean source of water; there is open deification, and rainfall washes this to the streams where they fetch their drinking water. This is why there is outbreak of diseases here and there. This is the problem that is facing the primary healthcare in the country. But the most important thing is that the government is also working hard to address the issues. The one per cent basic healthcare provision fund which is as a result of understanding between the Executive and the Legislature, following the Health Act of 2014, has come to rescue because over the years nobody has done that.   But now we have agreed that one per cent of Consolidated Revenue of the Federation is allocated to health in our annual budget. We did it last time; we are expecting that it should continue. One per cent is still a far cry but it is better than nothing. We have issues with donor agencies, that the one per cent is in the Service Wide Vote. It should rather be statutory so that during the budget making, it should be part of the budget of the health. Donor agencies prefer it to be in the budget so that it becomes statutory, and not at the whims and caprices of anybody who is there. But the most important thing is the political will because if you make it statutory and there is no political will to release it, it still amounts to nothing. But we have seen that the Federal Government is committed to ensuring that the primary healthcare receives the attention it deserves. Are you of the view that the Primary Healthcare should be left for the state and the local government?  For me, if you want things to be done effectively, I am of the opinion that constitutional amendment is very important in that respect because when you stay very far away and do things for people in the rural area, most of the time you don’t get the whole attention it deserves.   Do you intend to come up with a bill to amend the Constitution in this regard?   Yes, it is a team work. In the National Assembly here, we have five committee chairmen on health. In the House of Representatives we have three of them; in the Senate, we have Health and the Primary healthcare committees. So, by the time we sit and look at this issue and discuss with people who are concerned, we will come to agreement one way or another on the way they want it. But for me, I believe that constitutional amendment is the way to go because most of the Federal Government interventions in states, most of the time is not the same as the people who are concerned doing it. The reason is that the person who is coming to the rural area from far distance to do the work will not have a sense of ownership, and will therefore do things anyhow and go away. But if the person is from the state or a local government area, it will be easy to grab the person and ensure that he works for the people. Constitutional amendment will ensure that more responsibilities are concentrated in the rural area. The intervention the Federal Government will be doing will still be there but more will be with the states and local government areas so that things can work well for us.   What is your take on Medical tourism? Is it something that can be tackled through legislation, to prohibit people from seeking medical solution abroad?  Well, the medical tourism will be there for a long time to come because anybody who has his money, you cannot tell him how to spend his money. Most of them who are going on health tourism, you don’t even know where they are going. If the person is going on vacation and from vacation he goes to hospital, how do you get to know that? The critical ones you know are the ones that are going on referral, and what is their percentage to those going out on their own under various reasons? So, you can’t effectively stop medical tourism by law. But the rate of medical tourism is not a good commentary for the country. Ironically, most of the physicians you are going to meet over there are Nigerian doctors. So, the question should be, why are these Nigerian doctors trained in Nigeria moving to other countries and providing effective medical services? The issue is that they complain that they are not taken good care of here in Nigeria. You don’t have equipment. Most of the hospitals are mere consulting clinics. Then the next thing is to pay them well. If you must get a doctor to be busy working round the clock, you must pay him sufficiently to solve his problems. He must have enough to take care of himself and his children and other dependants.   They prefer to go abroad because they pay better, and then people suffer here. And this brain drain is a continuous thing in this country. People are moving every day, and some countries like Canada are even making things easy for them to come because they have already devised their own means of selecting the type of people they want to give them visas to come and live in the place. It is no longer the open lottery where you go and come; it is a selective lottery now. They want specialists in different fields of endeavour. They go there and serve their country and get well paid. So, it’s a serious issue that Nigeria has to confront.   The lack of equipment in Nigerian hospitals, would you attribute it to lack of funds of negligence on the part of government?   Well, for me, I don’t think that it is lack of funds or negligence. I feel that it’s all about commitment. The leadership has to show commitment because what is good for goose is good for the gander. The leadership of the country, of the states must know that these people who are in the rural areas are also children of the same God, and they worship and adore. And if you don’t take care of these people, one day, you will give account of your stewardship, maybe not here, it may be hereafter. You see, that is life expectancy overseas is better than here because they take adequate care of themselves to make sure that everybody has a medical history and wherever you go, your medical history goes with you. It’s a question of pressing the Internet and everything about your health is produced.   That is why before somebody administers drugs on you he will be sure of what he is doing; almost 95 per cent sure of what he is doing. In Nigeria here, who has any medical records? We don’t have medical history here. You move anywhere, you open new register. This is no longer tenable in many parts of the world; most parts of the world are developed. Here in Nigeria, you tell somebody about how you are feeling and the person starts administering drugs on you and before you know it the person is dead. Somebody drives himself to a hospital and in the next few hours they start calling that the person is dead. Why? Because they administered drugs that didn’t work well with the system. So, we really need these health problems challenging this country the attention it deserves. It begins with getting the requisite medical equipment in our hospitals; even if cannot get all of them, let’s get most of them, especially the diagnostic equipment. Even if it can’t be in all the states, let’s put them in geopolitical zones and make them centres of excellence so that if you have a major health challenge, you can go for referral. Let’s make the teaching hospitals we have in the geopolitical zone to have all the equipment you can get anywhere in the world, not just the ones we have in National Hospital in the FCT. If you go to South-East, you can choose UNTH, in South West, pick Ibadan or Lagos, choose in Kaduna or Kano. Equip them well and let people have access to these hospitals. Health is very costly but we shouldn’t run away from it because your health is your wealth.   Can we say that Nigerian politicians and political parties operate without political ideologies?   You see, everything is in a state of flux. Everything in Nigerian and the Third World countries is a state of becoming. And that’s a sorry situation. Since independence, you can check all the political parties we have had, from the NCNC, Action Group and others. Today, we have moved to PDP and APC, which is an amalgam of people from different backgrounds and others, and then other parties that go for elections in order to collect money from INEC. Their interest is the money that INEC will give them to mobilise them to do their campaign, not for winning elections. I call them portfolio political parties. You know Babangida brought the two-party system after the thirteen political associations he abolished but people criticised it, saying that he was infringing on freedom of association and all that. Yes, now that we have the freedom, where has the freedom landed us? If we had stuck with the two-party system of the SDP and NRC, by now we would have gone far.   Are you now canvassing for two-party system; is it better than multi-party system?   Of course, is it not what we are practicing today, how many parties are we doing in Nigeria here? We have all these small mushroom things but it is still the PDP and the APC that are in the main with the other small parties that don’t have influence in areas, just controlling one state or the other. So, it still boils down to the fact that it is a two-party thing.  So, we are also looking at the amendment of the INEC Act. That’s why we are in a haste to return the budget circle from the present practice to January to December. Once we finish with the budget, we will have the opportunity to get into other issues. Then the next thing is how do you look at the INEC Act, with a view to bringing fresh ideas into it. I am of the opinion that two-party system should be encouraged with opportunity for independent candidate. If you say that you are too important, that you don’t want to fit into the two parties, and that you can do it yourself, go and do it and let us see. We can say that, after registering the parties, the first election we do, a representation in the parliament will determine whether a party will still remain registered. If a party does not have representation at councillorship, state house of assembly, chairmanship election in the local government areas, and all that, we will weed it away; and it is the law that will be doing the weeding. You don’t just go to the INEC and collect money for mobilisation of people. Everybody is look to INEC to give them the money even without winning any single election. We see them in Abuja here.   The political parties are in the booths of the vehicle of the owners or in the hotel rooms of the owners. Any hotel they lodge today, that becomes the secretariat of the party for that one week or two. So, Nigeria has to move from one direction to another. Let all of us agree to have two parties. When we have two, we will then be thinking of ideologies. You can now say that this party is known for this; that the ideology that guides our operations in education is this; in agriculture is this, in commerce is this and so on. Then the other party will say that their own ideology in these areas is this. So, by the time you look at this, you know where you belong. It will help the political culture of the country than what we have now.   Do you support parliamentary system for any reason or merging some parastatals to reduce cost of governance?   You see, the truth is that merging parastatals is purely executive function. If the Presidency says it is going to have 36 ministries, so be it. You don’t force executive to do it because the party has won election and it decides the way it goes about governance. If they say they want to have 600 ministries, so be it. In the Senate, we have 69 committees to oversee the other arms of government. In the House of Representatives they have more to oversee the executive and others. You don’t go and force some of these things on people. The executive will decide. You don’t put everything into legislation. If you go to some states, they have reduced their commissioners; not more than 12 as the case may be. It depends on the way they want it.   On the issue of going to parliamentary or presidential system, it is neither here nor there. Any one you choose has its own costs. There is none of them you will do and it is for free. There is nothing you want to do in government that is cheap. It depends on the people who are doing that. If you go to parliamentary system and the mindset of people who are in government is not geared towards being frugal with the resources of the state, you still have your problem there. The same thing is applicable to presidential system. You are not going to get people from the moon to run the parliamentary or presidential; it’s the same Nigerians. So, what we should be preaching is how to make sure that the right kind of people are out in place. This is fundamental to everything that is being done.   From the Greek mythology and their politics where we started the city states and all the issues about citizenship and all that, they laid the foundation, and we learn from there. They were always talking about getting the people. When you go to the Plato Republic, that’s where they were advancing this issue of philosopher King; people who are hybrid, well educated and well informed that can take over their job and do it better than the others.   They categorized people according to their intelligence, capacities and capabilities. For us here also,  it our duty to determine who and who should be in what positions of authority to drive the system effectively. If we don’t get it right in getting the right kind of people, we will always fail. That is why trump can afford to be vulgar to say that we Africans are shit hole nations. This is because the right people are not there in government. People who shouldn’t have anything to do in government are in government. So, the issue is not whether it is parliamentary or presidential, the issue is to get the right people to be in government. Once we are able to do this, we will get it right, and the system will work for everybody. That’s why things are working in civilised democracies because everybody is a check on the other. It doesn’t mean that criminals are not there but the system has provided a check. So, we have to prepare to make sacrifices if we must get it right.