Chief George Moghalu, a former National Auditor of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was recently appointed the Managing Director of Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA). In this interview, he speaks on his vision for the agency and other issues. JOHNCHUKS ONUANYIM reports   What do you make of your appointment as the Managing Director of Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA)?   I want to thank Mr. President for the confidence in me and finding me worthy to serve the nation in this capacity and I want, with a firm commitment to assure him that I will not let him down and I will not let Nigerians down. I am determined to leave a mark by the time I would have finished my term in NIWA.   For me, it is a very great responsibility and I want to be remembered after my tenure for what I would have contributed to building on the achievements of my predecessors in office. I am among those groups of Nigerians, who believe that all will always be well with our nation. What we require is a re-dedication and to to serve with commitment. For me, it is a new dawn.   What do you know of NIWA before your appointment?   NIWA is more of a regulatory agency in charge of the waterways in the country. I believe that if we explore the waterways of Nigeria, it has great potentials in the area of water transport. The simplest I can say now is that it will reduce the burden on Nigerian roads. If our waterways are opened, the channels are free and secured; you can open the scope of passenger traffic. It is economical and it goes round the country. A good percentage of the goods that arrive the port in Lagos go to the South-East and are transported by road. It puts great pressure on the road. But if we have a clear waterway transport system, all these goods can be received in Lagos and moved to the inland ports.   We have a completed river port today in Onitsha and a jetty being built in Oguta. We also have a completed port in Baro and some of the goods going to the North can be moved by the waterways to Baro and to other areas where we have functional jetties and ports. It will open up the waterways and if these waterways are opened, you see that communities and other settlements along those routes will start being developed. It reduces tremendously, the pressure you have on the roads. If the agency engages major critical stakeholders, it will come to a point when cement and other heavy equipment are moved by river and they still get to where they are meant to go. When we do that, we would have succeeded in reducing the pressure on Nigerian roads.   To what extent do you think this can be done?   We can develop it to a point where passenger fleet can still be enhanced. The beautiful thing is that it provides opportunity for massive employment. It is capital intensive and we have to make a huge capital investment to make it very functional. It is one area that if we make it functional, it will help in reopening our economy. It is my intention to create an opportunity to engage critical stakeholders so that we all can discuss these issues and come to a point of understanding and see the potentials lying fallow that we can explore for the benefit of our nation.   As an agency we have challenges. It is not as easy as we are saying it. Sometimes, you talk about desalting of the channels; you talk about the security challenges of these waterways. But these are issues that are surmountable and issues that can be addressed. With collaboration with sister agencies of government, I am sure these issues can be addressed and water transport will then become the favourite of the Nigerian people. I think that will help our economy.   What challenges do you think that poor water transport have caused to the economy?   If you look at the gridlock we are suffering today in Apapa, if we had a functional waterway system, a good number of these goods stocked there, building demurrage, frustrating importers would have gone to their destination through the river ports. I am aware that about 90 per cent or more of the materials being used to construct the Second Niger Bridge come by the river port and come through the waterways to Port Harcourt to Onitsha. If Julius Berger can do it, why not others. We need critical stakeholders who will now invest in that sector of our economy just like they are doing in the road transport. You can get them to understand the potentials in the water transport.  