Former Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget in the immediate past administration in Lagos State, Mr. Olusegun Banjo and his Energy and Mineral Resources counterpart, Mr. Olawale Oluwo, have denied reports that they indicted ex-Governor Akinwunmi Ambode before an ad-hoc committee of the state House of Assembly. The commissioners, who debunked reports in some sections of the media that they indicted their principal in the ongoing probe of 820 buses purchased by his administration, in separate statements, noted that the reports were deliberate misrepresentation of what transpired during at the proceedings of the investigative committee probing Ambode’s administration. The Speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, had constituted a nine-man ad-hoc committee under the chairmanship of Hon. Fatai Mojeed (Ibeju-Lekki I) to probe the procurement of 820 high occupancy vehicles by the Ambode administration under its Bus Reform Initiative (BRI). The House had claimed that the Ambode administration did not seek its approval for the procurement of the vehicles and directed the committee to ensure that Banjo and other top functionaries, who were involved to explain their roles in the procurement. At the proceedings, reports had claimed that Banjo indicted the former governor and that Ambode sidelined his ministry in the controversial purchase of 820 mass transit buses as the way the ministry was structured under Ambode did not allow him to function well. In his statement, however, Banjo denied the report, noting that he did not say anything before the committee to condemn or indict the Ambode administration under which he served as the Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning between February 2018 and May 2019. He explained that he appeared before the committee on October 15 based on a letter of invitation dated October 11, requesting him “to answer some questions on the purchase of 820 buses as they relate to the function of the Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget headed by me during the last administration.” Banjo said he told the committee that he was appointed in February 2018, at a time the issue of bus purchase had already been on the ground. He further said that he pointed out before the ad-hoc committee that the bus issue was not contained in the budget he managed, though it could have been in earlier budgets. The former commissioner said: “I am deeply saddened and disappointed by such sensationalism by a section of the press and by its uninhibited and deplorable abdication of a basic tenet of professional journalism – impartial reportage. “I wish to state that I am not in a position to know what exactly transpired on the issue of the buses as I was not in government, when the issue was tabled and approved by the State Executive Council and neither was I drafted into the Bus Steering Committee on assumption of duty in February 2018. “My response to questions asked by the committee under oath was intended to explain technical issues pertaining to the operations of the ministry and explain the anomalies they noted and seek explanations to, and nothing said by me there was intended to or said in any manner as to condemn or indict anyone.” However, Banjo said he brought to the attention of the ad-hoc committee that the operating system of the Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning should be reviewed, He added that he pointed out mentioned other weaknesses of the ministry’s operating system in a professional manner. His words: “It is pertinent to note that these observations had earlier been included in my handing over note to the new administration and as it affects all arms of government and not the executive alone. I was therefore, contrary to the impression sought to be portrayed by the press, not saying anything new that had not been said before.” In his own statement, Oluwo acknowledged that he attended the second session of the committee proceedings on October 15 alongside former Commissioner for Agriculture, Hon. Toyin Suara, noting that reports in some sections of the media over what transpired were not true. According to him, Suara and I were called into the conference room at the same time. The lawmakers asked both of us questions in the open. While Suara was asked questions about Lagos Rice Mill Project in Imota, I was asked questions about the LED-UK streetlights installation, a UK Exim Bank funded project. The former commissioner said it was strange “to read reports that Suara and Oluwo said many of the projects including Oshodi Transport Interchange and others were never captured in the state budget. This is rather strange.” He added: “For the avoidance of doubt, I reiterate that I did not and could never have indicted former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. I am a committed democrat, a loyal team player and a strong believer in the principle of collective responsibility.” He, therefore, noted that the reports were completely false and indeed a misrepresentation of the proceedings of the ad-hoc committee of the State House of Assembly.”