 T he Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday blamed Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, for incessant insecurity in parts of the state, saying that the governor used an improper model of amnesty for the release of bandits. In a statement signed by the PDP Secretary in the state, Suleiman M. Zhigun and made available to New Telegraph, PDP called on the governor “to cut his travels and cost, stay at home to hold regular security meetings and urgently provide relief to those affected by the menace.”  It will be recalled that despite the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) reached during a peace pact between the bandits and the state government, the bandits had reneged and had carried out several attacks and caused mayhem in many communities. According to Zhigun; “The incessant insecurity in the state had led to wanton destruction of lives and property across Niger State, which had continued unabated.   “This is as a result of the truancy and ‘jump around style’ of Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, who since emerging as governor, has not found it deserving to give the security architecture a face lift, save for a few ‘Tokunbo’ unserviceable Hilux vehicles bought at cut throat prices.” He noted that the security agencies in Niger State were still battling with the brand New Nissan pick-ups donated to them five years ago by the PDP led governor then, Babangida Aliyu, which expired since 2015.   While lamenting, Zhigun said: “The PDP finds it painful that after lives are lost, people displaced due solely to banditry and the governor’s refusal to stay in the state to tackle the issue, the governor comes with an ‘arrangee’ model of amnesty for bandits, when we are aware that the bandits have set up camps across the state. “Till now, we know for sure that there are several internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Kagara, who were forced out of their villages in Allawa, Kukoki, Pandogari, Madaka and neighboring villages of Rafi Local Government Area, and similar situations are in Shiroro LGA.” Furthermore, he said the capital city of Minna, killings of commercial motorcycle riders had become part of the city’s daily life. Accordingly, he said “a few days ago a man was caught with the body of a man he had removed his head and internal organs in the capital city, just this week another person was killed in Maitumbi area.” He, however, advised the governor to take issues of security seriously by giving all the security agencies support with necessary logistics.