Osun State Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode has charged management and staff of the Ministry to work hard as a team to attain success. Also, Egbemode charged Information Officers and other members of staff of the Ministry to begin to do things differently so as to achieve different and better results. The commissioner stated yesterday during the maiden meeting with the management staff and other members of staff of the Ministry held at the government’s secretariat. Egbemode explained that it was time for all to come together and work as a team to achieve results and project the image of the state in positive light to the rest of the world. Egbemode, who said she would like to be seen as a team leader, pointed out that information officers should begin to see themselves as correspondents in their various bits with a view to ensuring adequate coverage of government activities. While giving an assurance that the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola was ready to support the Ministry to achieve its mandate, the Commissioner said the governor was, however, expecting the Ministry of Information and Civic Orientation to project the image of government better than the way it used to be. Egbemode, who gave the assurance that various challenges facing the ministry would be carefully addressed with time, said she would ensure that training of members of staff would continue to be her top priority for optimum results. Also, Commissioner for Agriculture and Food Security, Mr. Adedayo Adewole charged members of his ministry to work hard and be dedicated to duty. Adedayo gave this charge at a familiarization meeting held at the conference hall of the Ministry, State Secretariat, Abere. According to him, they were on board to implement the Governor Adegboyega Oyetola`s development agenda as it concerned agriculture, urging staff to collaborate and work together as a team. Earlier in his remarks, Special Adviser to Governor on Agriculture and Food Security, Mr. Abiodun Ajisefini urged the staff to be time conscious in their day -to-day activities. Ajisefini also stressed that all hands must be on deck to transform the Ministry such that the generation yet unborn would benefit. Earlier in his welcome address, Coordinating Director, Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, Mr. Oluwabukola Aluko welcomed the Commissioner and the Special Adviser and assured them of the staff ’s co-operation.