Marilyn Oma Anona is a young Nigerian TV host who illustrates that starting from the scratch is not a myth. Apart from a mental health therapist, she is also a multimedia and social entrepreneur, coach/counsellor,  writer, public speaker, master of ceremonies, event host and the host/producer of the phenomenal TV talk show “Oma Living Show” that runs online   What brought about the ideal of the NGO? As the first child out of seven children, the goal was for me to study medicine and surgery at the university being very academically sound, but I took everyone by surprise when I decided to take another path which is actually a path of purpose and destiny. I made history by daring to become the first entrepreneur in my entire extended family which used to be dominated by academicians, civil servants and corporate professionals. Today, because of my courage, some of my family members have also ventured into entrepreneurship. Today, thousands of Nigerian youths have also found their purpose because of Marilyn. Before I became a full time entrepreneur, I worked as a presenter for MYTV Africa where I hosted a show called Poetry Pot. I also worked for Media Options, a media organisation in Abuja where I was a writer and Vox Pop presenter. Since 2015, we have produced 50 episodes of the Oma Living Show which is about four seasons. So what else do you do? We run a humanitarian platform known as ‘The Right Stage Project’, which is focused primarily on human capital development for young people in our public schools, school drop outs, women, girls, less privileged in the society and the millennial. It seeks to empower and provide lasting solutions to nagging issues in the society. This has also led us to lead several campaigns, aimed at making our society better. Campaigns like S.A.D which stands for-suicide, anxiety and depression. We started this in 2018, which provided awareness, education, advocacy and support for mental health issues that are the leading causes of suicide. And we have had a lot of that lately. What is your impression about how the society views depression? People think that depression is not an illness. They also think that it some voodoo sent by their “village people” as a result, our people do not pay attention and before you know it, suicides occur. But depression is a health challenge that can be treated through therapy and clinical help. It has become a serious issue in our country and I think there should be a proper policy to tackle mental health challenges. There should be clinics around communities where folks can get in and get help. How about jungle justice, sexual assault, what do you say to those? There is still a lot of work to be done there. Even our law enforcement carries out jungle justice too. But it is nothing compared to what the people do. The campaign on sexual assault is to help curb or reduce high incidence of rape and other sexual offences that impede human development and endanger lives. We equally champion campaigns on domestic violence and other societal vices. Right now, we have the campaign on balance through the Balance Network. What is the Balance Network about? We realise that there is a lot of dysfunctional young people who need help. So we decided to reach out or enlighten millennials on importance of making adequate time for various aspects of their lives based on their values and purpose in order to live a more fulfilled life. Basically we try to bring order and purpose to the lives of young people in various aspects of their lives, like relationships, job hunting, work ethic, start-up, emotional intelligence, social interaction, patriotism and many others. Tell us about your TV Talk Show? The Oma Living Show started as a TV Talk Show, but has since grown wider and bigger to be a media and social brand engaging in real projects aimed at positively transforming and changing our society and humanity by concentrating on the people that live in and make up the society and humanity. The show which is multi themed is known for, tackling nagging issues like entrepreneurship; celebrating unsung heroes and bringing them to limelight; soft skills inculcation, training and orientation; values, purpose and character orientation; mental health advocacy and awareness and other social campaigns.