President Donald Trump of the United States has charged Nigeria to dismantle Boko Haram and the Islamic State West Africa  (ISWAP) and drive them out of the region. In a goodwill message to commemorate Nigeria’s 59th Independence Anniversary, Trump described the United States and Nigeria as allies in the global battle against terrorism, adding that it was the desire of the US to see Nigeria freed from menace of all kinds of insurgencies. According to Trump, Nigeria is among America’s strongest partners in Africa, with whom it shared common goals of expanding trade and growing economic relationships. The letter, personally signed by Trump, read thus: “On behalf of the American people, I extend our warmest greetings and congratulate you on the 59th anniversary of Nigeria’s independence. “Nigeria is among our strongest partners in Africa.  We share common goals of expanding trade and growing our economic relationship.  We are allies in the global battle against terrorism, and we want to see Boko Haram and ISIS-West Africa driven out of the region and other insurgencies like them dismantled.  The United States welcomes efforts by your administration to diversify opportunities for your talented, creative, and hardworking people to the benefit of both our countries, Africa, and the world. “I am pleased that following our meeting last year, our Vice Presidents are also building on our longstanding history of cooperation.  I wish the people of Nigeria continued success as you mark another year of independence.” The United States has spent an estimated $2.8 trillion on counterterrorism since the 9/11 attacks. The counterterrorism funding includes government-wide homeland security efforts, international funding programs, and the wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria. In Nigeria, the U.S. government has offered technical assistance to the security forces to boost their capacity in the counter- terrorism war in the country. Boko Haram and its offshoot, ISIS-West Africa (ISIS-WA), sometimes called ISWAP have carried out killings, bombings, and attacks on civilian and military targets in northern Nigeria, resulting in thousands of deaths, injuries, and significant destruction of property. Nigeria has been working in collaboration with other terrorism-affected neighbors such as Cameron, Chad, Niger and Benin, who are members of the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF), to counter these terrorist groups and regain control over territories  previously held by them, as well as rebuild civilian structures and institutions in liberated areas. Terrorist activity accounted for the internal displacement of nearly two million persons in the states of Adamawa, Borno, and Yobe, and the external displacement of more than 200,000 Nigerian refugees to neighbouring countries, principally Cameroon, Chad, and Niger.