The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association (IPMAN) has threatened to close down all filling stations in Cross River State over what it described as continuous harassment by the leadership of the Police Force. New Telegraph can authoritatively report that the decision to close down their filling stations was reached after series of meetings with some stakeholders on the arrest the Chairman of IPMAN, Comrade Robert Obi early this week in Calabar by the police authorities from Abuja, as well as the shutting down of the association’s office which also covers Akwa Ibom State over alleged leadership crisis. A source from the meeting, which was held between Monday and Wednesday, said the stakeholders expressed shock that “even after the national leadership of IPMAN and the state government have resolved all the grey areas, the Special Monitoring Unit from IG’s Office is still haunting the leadership, led by Robert Obi on trumped up charges.” The source added that a crack team of police detectives from IG’s Office had arrived the state Police Command on Monday, seeking permission to effect Obi’s arrest. “This development has created panic among our members just as we are considering closing down all fuel stations in protest against the IG’s monitoring team over intimidation,” the source noted. Our Correspondent, who visited the Calabar depot, however, noticed some unusual movements of some plain clothes detectives who declined comments or talked to journalists. However, the spokesman for the Stakeholders’ Forum, Joseph Akan, said they were tired of the hide-and-sick game played by police detectives from Abuja, “who have taken delight in harassing our leadership.” Akan said: “Last week, some police officers came from Abuja claiming that they are from the Office of the Inspector-General of Police, and this week also another set came still claiming that they are from the same office for the same IPMAN. “Please we are pleading with these officers to leave Calabar petrol dealers alone instead of escalating the problem. The state government has intervened in the problem and resolved whatever issues that were lingering. But, it seems to me that the police from Abuja do not want us to enjoy peace. “We have suffered a lot in their hands even when the matter is in court. Our members are waiting for last minute directive from their leaders to close shops until the police officers leave Calabar.” Also speaking on the development, the immediate past Senior Special Adviser on Public Communication to the Governor, Mr. Tony Undeandeye, regretted that at a time when peace had returned to the association following government’s intervention, the police authorities from Abuja were bent on reigniting fire by alleging that there was a pending petition against the chairman. Undeandeye,  who was the Chairman of a special committee set up by government to look into the crisis in IPMAN, wondered why the police was interested in IPMN Calabar Depot, insisting that there is no problem in the association. While appealing to members of IPMAN not to shut down their fillings stations across the state in the interest of the public, Undeandeye assured the association that the state government was determined on ensuring peace so that the public would not suffer unnecessarily. All attempts to get the Chairman of IPMAN, Calabar Depot for his comments failed as all his phone lines were switched off, while his office had been shut down. A senior police officer in Zone 6, who pleaded anonymity, however, said that he was not aware of the arrival of the IG’s Special Force in the state, saying: “I do not want my name in print, but I am not aware of such special team in the state, and if there was any such team, the zone should have been properly informed.”