…dismisses cholera outbreak in Queens College   The Federal Government has said it was undertaking some measures to ensure that 104 unity schools located across the country had active ambulances to transport students in need of emergency care to healthcare facilities. Besides, unity schools would henceforth be attached to government hospitals or private hospitals in cases where there were no government’s hospitals close to the school. Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echonu, made this known at a ministerial briefing yesterday ahead of this year’s World Teachers Day with the theme ‘Young Teachers the Future of the Profession.’ Echonu said: “We have taken some policy measures at the ministry that all our unity schools must be attached to government hospital of close proximity where the government hospital is not very close, we will allow them to also be attached to private hospitals not more than 3 to 5 hundred metres for rapid response. “We have also directed that from next year, all those that do not have ambulances we will provide ambulances to all our unity schools dedicated to attending to all these and similar cases immediately. Many of them already have but some including Queens College does not have and we are going to be helping queens college to acquire one in the next few days.” Echonu, who debunked news of a cholera outbreak in Queens College Lagos, clarified that the students who fell ill in their numbers, had flu, which he explained, was in season. While calling on all other unity schools to put preventive measures in check to prevent similar epidemics, he said government was engaging a few more health personnel within the ministry’s release and approval threshold to assist the present health personnel at the school clinics. “There was no cholera epidemic outbreak in Queens College, noting water borne or food related. We had a very unusual number of cases of flu, cold and malaria. This is a flu season. “When you have so many people together because it is airborne, it is very easy to transmit and that is what transpired. It’s now under control maybe only three or four were at the clinic as at the time I visited but the first three, four days it was a huge challenge. “It’s unfortunate this happened, many of the kids just came in within one week of arriving the school premises but we apologise we have this disruptions. “Many are also coming back now and we hope all other schools will take measures to ensure that this does not happen in other institutions.”