Prince Akpan Ikim is a vibrant youth leader and Board Chairman of the Akwa Ibom State Waste Management and Environmental Protection Agency. He speaks on the challenging activities of his Agency in this interview with TONY ANICHEBE   Since your assumption of duties, you must have recorded some milestones. However, not without challenges, can we know how you are confronting them?   I want to start by expressing deep gratitude to Governor Udom Emmanuel for giving us the opportunity to serve. We are a 10-member committee serving on the board of the agency which was created by law. When we were inaugurated on September 5, 2018, nothing was on ground, the budget was at zero level but we have received tremendous support from the governor and raised the agency from ground zero to where we are today. We never had tools to work with but by the grace of God and magnanimity of the governor, today we have the dumpsters, convertors and swing arm trucks.   I made it clear to people that when you are appointed to government, show capacity to handle such office and you will receive support. Even the Bible says ‘seek you first the kingdom of God and its righteousness and every other thing will be added unto you.’ Building trust involves, building one with the public and secondly with government, your employer. Today we have some good equipment to work with but our major challenge is indiscriminate dumping of refuse, lack of adherence to the environmental standards etc. Sincerely speaking, the job of keeping Akwa Ibom clean is not just that of the board but every member of the public. Environmental hazard does not recognise the rich or the poor and does not know party men. If we all collaborate in this regard, Akwa Ibom State will be cleaner safer and more habitable for all of us.   We have seen some level of sanity in the city especially around Plaza down to Ikot Ekpene Road by Eka Street with the disappearance of street trading. How did you remove this ugly menace?   The menace did not just disappear but took us a whole lot of effort. We went on air to give them 21 days ultimatum; gave them 14 days and later seven days ultimatum to vacate the place. This is because this government has a humane heart because by law street trading is an offence but since that is their source of livelihood, the first thing we did was to look for an alternative for them that is why we had engagement with the management of the Plaza to engage all those doing illegal trading around Plaza by Ikot Ekpene Road,  Aka and Abak Roads to have a shed within the Plaza and today there is a Plaza market within the Plaza. The traders operating around Eka Street, Udi Street and around the surroundings of Ikot Ekpene Road by University of Uyo, we urged them to move into UNIUYO market.   However, we found out that people often resist change especially against things they have done over a long period of time. Unfortunately the ugly side of illegal street trading is the massive wastes it generates which are often dumped inside the drainages. And when you hear that Akwa Ibom is always flooded, it’s basically because of human activities. Most waste generated by illegal street trading ends up in the drainages believing that it will be washed away by rain water but the refuse ends up blocking drainages and the resultant effects is massive flooding in the city.   We also brought our enforcement team to clear the illegal traders off the streets and sometimes we use minimal force to move them off the streets to give the city better aesthetics. The Ibom Plaza from inception was conceived to be like a tourist site for relaxation and side seeing but today it is something else and we are not relenting on the enforcement of the order on illegal street trading. Who are the ones doing the enforcements for the Agency, a task force team or the uniform vigilantes seen around the city?   Yes we have two sets of enforcement teams one is the vigilante and the other one is the main enforcement team. The vigilantes just returned from training in Police College on basic intelligence gathering and counter terrorism. They are back now and more proactive to serve the state.   Looking at waste management, before now we are talking about converting waste to wealth. How far have you gone in achieving this goal of turning waste into money spinning ventures?   We have several companies that have shown interest in this waste to wealth projects and the first one is P & A Solutions. The P & A Solutions will turn waste into wealth, we have another company called OBASA, who hope to turn waste into energy and the last company is ABEDA, they are here to turn waste into fertilizers. The P & A Solution have resolved to come in by first week of October and when they launch out we will have more job opportunities for our youths. There will also be influx of other small companies and by the time it is fully operation, it will help turn around the economy of the state.   Considering the volume of waste generated daily in Akwa Ibom can you project what the state stands to gain embarking in these projects?   Good, with P & A Solutions, Akwa Ibom State will stand to gain not less than $65 million that is the projection because it will create multiple jobs with its multiplier effects on the state economy. Will the amount be yearly or over a period of time?   No it will be over a period of time because this is a Public Private Partnership arrangement which be beneficial to all. Your efforts at stopping indiscriminate dumping of refuse is yielding positive results in some vital areas around the capital city but the dumpsters and receptacles appear inadequate, are we still expecting more to be distributed?   Yes, we still have some under production but I want to say that the issue of waste management should not be left to the government alone. Other companies, banks and major firms should also assist the government in terms of procurement of machines dumpsters and receptacles. Anything that affects the government or the state also affects them. Government procured dumpsters and receptacles we are using today but they are not enough yet.   Therefore, individuals, 10Cs and other companies must intervene in this regard. We are planning a massive waste management dialogue in which we hope to discuss extensively with these firms and others on how they can partner with the government in procuring those things.