Hon. Abiodun Tobun represents Epe Constituency I in the Lagos State House of Assembly. In this interview, he speaks on governance in the state, the priorities of the incumbent government of Babajide Sanwo-Olu and infrastructural development. WALE ELEGBEDE reports   How would the people of Lagos State know that they have a new Sheriff in town in the area of road infrastructure because it seems Lagos roads are now in a sorry state?   The Lagos State government under Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu is ready and determined to fix infrastructure in the state. We all see that a state of emergency has been declared on roads in the state by the state government. The government is ready to deplore all strategic and technical know-how to fix all the roads in the state.  The plan of the government is to fix the roads that are in bad shape and those already dilapidated and continue to maintain the roads in the state. The government is ready to deplore passion and energy on road repair in the state. Lots of manpower has been lost in traffic gridlock in the state. With good roads, business activities will flourish, what people go through to get things done will reduce and generally, the aesthetic value of the environment would be better enhanced. With good roads, the wear and tear on the vehicle will reduce. Fixing the roads, constructing bridges and pedestrian bridges would be better under this government.   At the same time, we need to advise our people that the roads constructed by the government should be guided by them. We should not be agents of destruction. You see a lot of people performing mechanical activities on the roads, this should be discouraged. Those who cut roads should stop. If you want to cut a road to lay pipes or anything make sure you take permission from the appropriate government agency and such road should be fixed back immediately.  Basically, fixing existing roads, reconstructing the failed road and continuous road maintenance is the principle of the government.  It’s like many of the roads are bad, people didn’t expect that so many roads should go bad at the same time in a city such as Lagos. The former administration embarked on the construction of new roads and neglected road maintenance. Should we expect a new approach this time around?   In the last few years, about two years ago, the policy where one seems to start a new project and abandoned the existing ones became rampant. The road maintenance started by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as Lagos State governor and continued by former governor Babatunde Raji Fashola was abandoned midway by the last administration. The Public Works Corporation (PWC) that was supposed to patch bad roads and repair roads were not allowed to work, yet a lot of vehicles enter Lagos every day. But this is being addressed by the current government. In advanced countries, they continuously maintain their infrastructure, which is why you see their environment wearing a new look every day. You must maintain anything you are using continuously.   That is why even as human beings we take drugs and go for medical checkups. Most of the roads were abandoned in the last few years. But this government is determined about road construction, road maintenance, and continuous road maintenance policy. The existing roads must be well maintained for the people to use both day and night. This government would go back to that policy. They have given bigger road projects to big construction companies, while the inner roads and others are being repaired by the PWC. Then those roads would be put back into proper perspective.  When should we expect the completion of the Agege Bridge project?  The projects embarked upon by the last administration would be completed by this government to make life more meaningful and more comfortable for our people. Abandoning the road projects started by the last administration would make life difficult for our people. For example, the Agric-Ishawo road started by the last administration is been completed; the Pen Cinema flyover initiated by the last administration is being completed by the current government. The completion of the projects would be determined by the work schedule of the project given to the construction companies. We are not to determine when the projects would be completed; it depends on what the ministry has given them. Our own is to ensure that they do what they said they were going to do base on the Appropriation Law of the state. 