The Protocol officials of Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State escaped death yesterday when the Hilux van they were traveling in was involved in a ghastly motor accident with an Audi 80 car, along Benin-Ekpom- Auchi- road, Edo State; killing seven persons, including five adults and two children. The incident occurred near Ehor village, Uhunmwonde Council Area of the state. Sunday Telegraph learnt that the accident was as a result of a head on collision of the two vehicles along the busy single lane expressway. Five of the victims died at the accident scene while two others died on their way to the Central Hospital Benin in the state capital.   A team of medical personnel at the Accident and Emergency Unit of the hospital were said to have battled to revive the victims but to no avail.  Governor Obaseki’s Protocol officials in the Toyota Hilux were on their way as an advance team to the Ambrose Alli University (AAU) Ekpoma to attend the 22nd convocation ceremony of the University, when the accident occurred. Governor Godwin Obaseki is a visitor to the AAU and was billed to attend the convocation ceremony.  A nurse at the accident and emergency unit of the hospital had confirmed that the accident victims were brought in but declined to give details. The State Commissioner of Police, Danmallam Mohammed, who confirmed the incident, said was “very unfortunate.” Cajetan Mmuta BENIN Five persons were yesterday confirmed dead in a multiple accident along the Benin-Auchi road in Edo State. The accident, which occurred at about 10:25am at the Ewu slope junction in Esan Central Local Council Area involved one Toyota commercial bus and two articulated trucks laden with cement… In "News" There was anxiety at the Government House and other parts of Benin, Edo State yesterday as 14 journalists and other media aides of Governor Godwin Obaseki escaped death by a whisker. They were involved in a crash in front of the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) main gate at… In "Metro and Crime" At least 13 people yesterday lost their lives in motor accident which occurred in Ogun and Edo states. Five people reportedly died in an auto crash in the Kobape-Siun axis of Abeokuta-Sagamu Expressway in Ogun State, while eight others were killed in Auchi, the headquarters of Etsako West Local Government… In "Metro and Crime"