Igbo residents in various parts of Benue State have said that despite security measures being put in place by Governor Samuel Ortom, their lives and property were still in danger. The people said they had lost three persons to kidnappers and paid N277 million as ransom to free 48 victims. They expressed satisfaction with the measures so far initiated by Ortom to ensure security of lives and property in the state. The Public Relations Officer (PRO), Igbo Union in Benue, Mr. Emmanuel Ezeadi, told journalists in Enugu yesterday, thanked Ortom for promptly responding to the clarion call made by the union recently, in which it alerted the nation that Igbo in the state had become endangered. However, Ezeadi noted that while the state government had initiated several measures to check the menace of kidnappers, local gangs and Fulani herdsmen had devised other means of terrorising the Igbo community including anonymous threat calls, unsolicited nocturnal visits by hooded local gangs demanding instant payment of “protection fees” at gunpoint, etc. Giving a breakdown of huge financial losses so far incurred by the Igbo community in Benue State, especially in Gboko, Adikpo-Kwande, Ukum Zaki-Biam and Katsina-Ala local government areas, Ezeadi said since February 2017 till date, there had been 48 recorded cases of abduction of Igbo businessmen and women with a total ransom of over N277 million paid out to the abductors. He said some of the victims were murdered even after the demanded ransom had been paid. Ezeadi called on both the Benue and Federal Governments to increase security surveillance around areas dominated by non-indigenes, especially Igbo businessmen and women, to forestall incidents of kidnapping and barefaced extortion. In a recent statement, the Igbo Youths Movement expressed dismay with the way reports concerning security of Ndigbo in Benue State had been handled with levity by the security agencies in the state. It warned that Igbo in Benue State might be forced to aggressively defend their lives and property.