The Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development recently led other agencies of government and international organisations to mark the International Day of the Girl-Child in Abuja. DEBORAH  OCHENI was there   It was a beautiful and fulfilling weekend as the Federal Government, local and international organizations came together to honour the  girl child and  remind  her of her  special  place  in the society. The International Day of the Girl Child is celebrated on October 11 every year. It is a day set aside by the United Nations to focus  on  the unique challenges the girl child faces. The celebration highlights  issues of the girl child rights,   gender inequalities, discrimination and abuse suffered by girls  around the world. The theme of this year’s celebration ‘Girlforce: Unscripted and Unstoppable’ is strategically chosen to celebrate achievements and giant strides made by girls around the world. In order to commemorate the day,   a series of activities were organized  to amplify the voice of the girl  child  and encourage her  to  stand up for their rights to safe quality education and economic emancipation. One of the events hosted by the National Centre for Women Development in partnership with the  United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) attracted the participation of the  Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Federal Ministry of Education,  Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and  Disaster Management. Also in attendance were the Universal Basic Education (UBEC),  Girl Child Concerns, G4G Beneficiaries, Education Youth Advocates  and a host of other civil society organisations. Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen, who was at the celebration,  underlined the need for every family to take proper care of the girl child. She noted that the girl child of today,  transforms into a wife, mother, sister, teacher, nurse, and a counselor.  According to her, the girl child is an asset to the nation and should be educated to enable her take the necessary strides in different sectors of the economy. Tallen observed that the strength, potentials and virtue of girls have been denigrated in most places as the girl child is marginalized, abused, exploited and neglected due to her sex and other socio cultural practices. She lamented that in some parts of Nigeria, the story of a girl child is worrisome. “So many marriages have broken down due to reasons related to the wife giving birth to all girls and many women have also lost their lives in the process of looking for male children, not realizing that the girl child is a powerful being and a force that possess unique traits and characteristics that make her not only a girl, but a force to reckon with if her potentials are properly harnessed. “The girl child is most often denied education in favour of her brothers. She is forced into early marriage,  thereby depriving her of her childhood. She is made to hawk and sometimes trafficked. Generally, when a nation fails to deliver basic services, the girls are the most affected,” she said. She said that this scenario was unacceptable, adding that the new narrative  should be anchored  on the innate greatness in every girl child. According to Tallen,   the onus lies on all Nigerians to remove the barriers  put on the way of the girl child by investing in her education and showcasing her sterling qualities. “The girl child education is smart economics and it jumpstarts all opportunities for socio-economic growth and development. Educating a girl means changing the world, not just her world but the world she lives in,” she   said. The  Federal Government, she said,  was   aware and concerned about the girl child and has directed the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs to give special attention to the implementation of several  intervention programmes, including collaborating  with the Federal  Ministry of Education to increase the enrolment, retention and completion rates of girls in primary and secondary schools, improve health, education and productivity of Nigerian women and girls,  activate an action plan to promote political, social and economic participation of girls and women in Nigeria and advocate for the domestication of the Child Rights Act by all the states of the federation. The minister regretted that not less than one million girls miss 2-3 days of school during menstruation due to poor access to water and sanitary services in schools. She however, said that Nigeria has endorsed the world wide initiative on menstrual health and hygiene management to enable girls achieve their full potential and contribute meaningfully to national development. Director General, National Centre for women Development, Mary Ekpere-Eta,  argued that  investing in the  education of girls and ensuring they remained in school was still the best option, as it would enable the girls to reach their dreams and better their livelihood. “In this rapidly changing world, girls who miss out of foundational education and life skills will be more vulnerable in the future. It will worsen inequality and re-echo poverty for generations to come. Thus, all hands must be on deck to break existing barriers to girl-child education in Nigeria. “Working towards the actualization of the theme in addressing the issue of Information and Communication Technology, the Centre is running a Girls Coding programme to connect young girls and women to the information super highway to enable them explore opportunities available in the sector. To ensure no one is left out, the Centre trains Girls with Disabilities on the use of ICT, with a Special Centre dedicated to the visually impaired. We are also revitalizing the Girl Child Mentorship Programme to match young girls with young women who have made impact in the society. “As a gender research, training and documentation Centre, our doors are open to more partners interested in working with us, to advance the Nigeria the Girl Child Agenda. I therefore, urge all to avail themselves with the opportunities at the National Centre for Women Development in bridging the existing gaps and empowering Nigerian girls,” she said. Speaking with Inside Abuja, Annguzo Nmesoma, a student of Junior Secondary School,  Kubwa, said she is proud to be worthy of international recognition. “I feel so special on a day like this. I have been reminded that it’s a great privilege to be born a girl. It feels so good to know that, internationally, a day is set aside to celebrate me as a girl-child. I am so happy and I appreciate the Federal Government of Nigeria for organizing interesting programmes to commemorate the day,” she said.