Hon. Bisi Yusuff who represents Alimosho Constituency 1 in the Lagos State House of Assembly is the new Chairman of Committee on Housing. He tells WALE ELEGBEDE about the state government’s efforts to provide houses for the people  What is the state government’s plan for the people on Housing, the Committee you head?  I got the mandate of the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa to head the Housing Committee. But the Speaker only mentioned the Chairmen of the Committees; he has not mentioned the members. Once our members and the secretariat are in place, then we will start work. A good leader does not impose his ideas on the Committee. I have an idea of what to do, but we have to work together as a team. Even in a desert there would always be oasis. So, a committee depends on who is operating it. Like you said, housing project is important. We have our own agenda and the people of Lagos State would be happy for it.  What would be your relationship with the executive on this so that it would be put on its toes?  Lagos State House of Assembly is not a rubber stamp. We are proactive and our Speaker is also proactive. Our Speaker likes someone that is active. There would not be any confrontation, but we will do our job the way it is expected. What of the issue of cost? With the new government, how would you ensure that the houses are affordable to the masses?  I have not seen their books so I cannot determine whether the houses are affordable or they are not. When I have that and the Committee starts work, we will know what to do. What I know is that we will do something that is unique. Culture, they say is people’s way of life. Let us look at the major aspect of culture – language. What is the house going to do to preserve Yoruba Language?   To me, culture is not just an identity; it is a way of life. The way we drink water and the way we eat are parts of our culture. The way you sleep and the way you breathe are parts of our culture. As you said, language is a vehicle of culture. In the Lagos State House of Assembly, we have realized this, which is why we are embracing the language and our leader believes that once we preserve our identity through our language then we will go far. About three years ago, we celebrated Yoruba Day in the Assembly and invited all the custodians of our culture such as Obas, Baales and others. If you go to foreign countries, the people preserve their language a lot. When you translate a message from Yoruba Language to English Language you would miss some ingredients. Yoruba is so rich that there is no way you can translate it to other languages except Yoruba. We have non-verbal communication in Yoruba Language. But nowadays we are losing it and when you lose your language you would lose everything -even economic development- we are losing it and we don’t care again.   Go to Germany, they speak their language, Chinese, they speak their language. They speak their language in every developed country. It is the most important and it is so rich. Even science could be done in Yoruba Language. But now, we cannot speak it fluently. None of us could speak Yoruba Language without interjecting it with English Language and we need to be very careful about this. When a child greets the father and mother at home, he says “good morning.” What is the meaning of that? In Yorubaland, you prostrate or kneel to greet elders as the case may be.   There is a way parents greet too. The mother would greet the sons or daughters in an emotional way and tell them their origin and tell them to know how to behave. What we are losing now is what the white men are coming to learn. They destroyed it in the first place. If you say this thing is not good, another person would take it, which is what they are doing. They are bringing the third colonization. The first was colonization, then we had neo-colonization and post colonization is what they want to do now. When they come now, they would learn our language and come back to teach us the language.  What is the way out?  That was what we started today by passing a motion that we should speak our language regularly.  Is our culture not being affected by Western religion?  Religion is different from culture. Religion is about the concept of the Supreme invisible being. The traditional people have their own belief; it is quite different from culture. But they can be interwoven. That was why I said that people should not mix religion with culture. They are two different things. You may be cultural without believing in traditional worship. That is why I dress like a Yoruba man regularly and I am proud of it. But I don’t worship God in the traditional way.