Mohammed Ibrahim Dangana, is the govership candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) for the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State. In this Interview with MUHAMMAD BASHIR, he spoke on his plans to govern the state. Excerpts…    What are your chances in the governorship race next month?  My chances in the election are very bright. As a youth in his early 40s, I have seen the way and manner successive administrations have ruled the people since the return of democracy, and having gone round to convince the people on the need to try another platform this time, and their acceptance of my candidacy, there is a bright prospect for me and my party going into this election.  What are the things you want to correct if elected as governor?  There are lots of issues and problems begging for attention in this state. Any politician who knows his onions and the game of politics should know that there are lots of campaign tools in the state right now that could be used to ride smoothly to Lugard House. We have witnessed one of the worst administrations in this state since the return of democracy in 1999.  For instance, as a civil service state, everyone in Kogi depends on monthly salaries but are the salaries being paid?  The answer is No. But the government recently said the issue of salary and other things are beign addressed. Don’t you agree? Nothing is being addressed. There are lots of school dropouts these days because teachers are not paid.  There is no infrastructural development on ground, even the ones started by previous administrations are suffering from decay. Our hospitals are ill equipped, doctors and other health personnel are running away from the state all because of bad governance and impunity.  Any leader who addresses these societal ills would be a god in the eyes of the people. These issues, with youth/women empowerment, agricultural revolution, sound healthcare delivery system and a vibrant and viable educational system are some of the things I intend to do differently. A major issue in the state is the absence of human and physical development, how would you want to change the narative? With my sound knowledge of the entire state, its people and their diversity in different aspects, it will be absolutely wrong of me not to change the cause of history in this state.  I was on the streets too, so I know where the shoe pinches and I know what the people want from their government. If elected, I will assemble the best hands and brains to drive the state out of under development, poverty, infrastructural decay, ethnic jingoism and many more.  As a leader, I can’t drive development alone, and that’s why the first thing that readily comes to mind after my developmental blueprint for the state is qualified, capable and unbiased hands and technorats to ensure we succeed in this task of bailing our state out of its present condition.  There is wide spread notion that the election would be marred with violence, going by the political activities so far. What’s your view? Over the years, elections in Nigeria have been marred with violence. This is because desperate politicians want to win at all cost thereby putting aside the principle of democracy which talks about allowing the popular wish of the people to prevail.  Kogi is not an exception. As we approach November 16, there have been lots of flash points especially in the local government areas where the polls can be rigged. The security agencies have assured us that they are already gearing themselves up for any eventuality and that every political party will be given a level playing ground. We have also raised the alarm on certain areas where we may likely experience some pockets of violence. I want to use this medium to appeal to the security agencies to be vigilant and arrest whoever tries to disrupt the process and also their sponsors. Many believe that the APC and PDP are the major contenders.  Can your party pull   any surprise?  Every political party cleared to contest this election is a major contender and capable of shocking anyone. The PDP ruled the state from 2003 to 2015, at a time when they dominated the political landscape while APC and whatever nomenclature it bore then was in the opposition. But in the build up to the 2015 election, some aggrieved politicians pooled resources together and fought PDP and today it is APC in power. So in politics, anything can happen, it is about acceptance by the people and the ability of the party to convince the masses on the need to key into your ideology.  As you know, the slogan of our party is ‘Abolition of Poverty’, which is what the people prefer to hear, rather than ‘Next Level’, ‘Change’ or Power to the People’. NCP as a party has a great deal of chance in this coming election and we will shock many people.  Specifically, what are your programmes for the state, if given the mandate to govern?  In my short sojourn on earth and interaction with people of different sphere, I have come to realise that if you want to achieve result in anything you do, make your concept and programmes short, concise and understandable. Numerous programmes is a pathway to failure. On this note I have seen the areas of need of my people and that is where I want to hit the ground running. Civil service review and prompt payment of salaries, agricultural revolution, sound healthcare delivery system, proper attention to the educational sector, youth and women empowerment, as well as infrastructural development are my focus.  There are calls and distrust on the leadership of INEC and police in the state, is your party advocating for restructuring of these two agencies before the election? Absolutely, I am a frontline advocate of the call for removal of the Resident Electoral Commissioner.  We have lost confidence totally and completely in his ability to deliver a free, fair and credible poll. Why would INEC conduct a credible election under him when he has become a friend to the government of the day. If what happened during the rerun election last year and the February elections this year is anything to go by, the REC should be transferred from this state though the duration is absolutely short to the period of election. They are the problem of conducting elections in the state. They take sides openly during elections which is very wrong.  If the system must work, we must as a matter of fact weed out biased leaders from the saddle.  What are your expectations?  INEC should make everyone happy in this state by allowing free, fair and credible elections so as to deepen the institutionalisation of the principle of democracy. The police and other security agencies should also not show support or favour a particular political party.  Let whoever God has ordained take the day and I hope they will heed this advise. Your advice and call to the electorates. They should endeavor to conduct themselves in a very good manner during and after the election. People should not take laws into their hands.  The security agencies would be on hand to deal with troublemakers and ballot box snatchers. Go to the poll and cast your vote peacefully and move away from the voting point to await the compilation of the results. Election is not war. It is those who are alive that celebrate victory.