The police officer who fatally shot a Fort Worth, Texas, woman in her home while answering a call for a welfare check has been arrested on murder charges. The charge comes after the officer abruptly resigned on Monday just before he was about to be fired for allegedly violating multiple department policies, the police chief said. The officer, identified earlier Monday as Aaron Dean, is being held without bond in Tarrant County, according to court records.
“I certainly have not been able to make sense of why she had to lose her life,” Fort Worth Police Chief Ed Kraus said at a news conference prior to the arrest, in reference to the early Saturday morning killing of Atatiana “Tay” Jefferson. “On behalf of the men and women of the Fort Worth Police Department, I’m so sorry for what occurred.” Kraus identified the officer who shot Jefferson, 28, as Dean, who was hired by the police force in August 2017 and was commissioned as a licensed peace officer on April 13, 2018, reports abcnews. The police chief said he was scheduled to meet with Dean on Monday morning, but the officer tendered his resignation before they had a chance to meet. “Had the officer not resigned, I would have fired him for violations of several policies, including our use of force policy, our de-escalation policy, and unprofessional conduct,” Kraus said. But Jefferson’s grieving family said Dean should have never been given the option to resign. “He should have been fired before this,” Jefferson’s brother, Adarius Carr, told ABC News. Jefferson’s sister, Ashley Carr, added that while her family welcomed apologies from the police chief and other city officials, including the mayor, she told ABC News, “It’s not the end result we’re looking for.”
“I want justice for my sister,” Ashley Carr said. “I want her death not to be in vain.”
She said her sister was a pre-med graduate of Xavier University of Louisiana, who dropped her career ambitions to return home to Texas to care for their ailing mother. She said Jefferson was also helping their sister, Amber, who recently underwent heart surgery, raise her two young children, including their 8-year-old nephew, Zion, who witnessed her being shot to death. The family’s attorney, civil rights lawyer Lee Merritt, said the next development loved ones of Jefferson are hoping for, is that Dean suffer the consequences of his actions.
“The opportunity to resign is a slap in this family’s face and it’s a slap in the community’s face,” Merritt said. “He should have never been given that option. And I want us to stop treating this … like it’s a bad apple case. The saying is ‘a bad apple spoils the bunch.’ But the barrel is rotten from the core.” Kaus said an internal investigation and a criminal investigation of Dean would proceed, and that he has sent a preliminary report of the shooting to the FBI to review Dean’s actions for possible civil rights violations. Kraus said Dean has not been cooperating with the investigation, adding, “He resigned before his opportunity to cooperate.” The chief had said prior to the arrest he was getting frequent updates on the criminal investigation against Dean and anticipated that he would be able to provide the public with a “substantial update” no later than Tuesday. He also said Dean’s separation paperwork would be sent to the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement, the agency in charge of licensing and certifying peace officers, “will reflect that he was dishonorably discharged from the Fort Worth Police Department.”
Kraus made the announcement after Mayor Betsy Price expressed outrage over the shooting and berated the police department for releasing a photo of a handgun found in Jefferson’s home, saying, “there is nothing that could justify what happened on Saturday morning. Nothing.”
“The gun is irrelevant. She was in her own home caring for her 8-year old nephew. Atatiana was a victim,” the mayor said.
Kraus echoed the mayor, saying the photo of the gun that was released to the public “was a bad thing to do” and was apparently intended to “show what the perceived threat may have been.”
He said the gun was found just inside the window where Jefferson, who, according to her family, had a permit to carry a concealed weapon, was shot.
“I can’t imagine most of us, if we thought we had somebody outside our house that shouldn’t be there and we had access to a firearm, that we wouldn’t act very similarly to how she acted,” Kraus said.
But Merritt said he interpreted the move as an attempt to “cast aspersions on Tay, to give this officer (Dean) an out.”
“This was their attempt to justify the unjustifiable,” Merritt told ABC News.
After spending the weekend hearing from outraged community residents, and friends and relatives of Jefferson, Price apologized on behalf of the city of Fort Worth.