A Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin yesterday sentenced a man, Mr. David Ogundele, to death by hanging for killing an MTN worker, Abiola Tosin Ashinwo. Justice Adebayo Yusuf convicted Ogundele on a two-count charge after over three years of legal battle. For the first count, the convict committed an illegal act by stabbing Ashinwo with the intention of causing her death thereby committing offence of culpable homicide punishable with death under Section 229 of the Penal Code Law. He was also convicted for committing culpable homicide for causing the death of Ashinwo by stabbing her with a knife and thereby committed offence punishable under Section 221 of the Penal Code Law. The judge held that the prosecution had been able to prove the case of culpable homicide against Ogundele. For the first offence, the convict is to serve 25 years jail term while he was sentenced to death by hanging for the second charge. In proving the case before the court, the prosecutor, Abdulmumini Adebimpe Jimoh, had called four witnesses – Inspector Yusuf Daudu, Corporal Bunmi Adegboye, Abiola Ashinwo and ASP Gbadebo Adeyemi. The exhibit tendered by the prosecutor include a Toyota Camry, sharp knife, a pair of rubber slippers, photographs of the deceased, and statement of the convict, among others. Confession of the convict quoted by the prosecutor stated that: “On the 25th April, 2016, I woke up and prepared for work. But to my surprise I never knew how I found myself in Ilorin; I can never explain how it happened because I really prepared to go to work. Since I’m now in Ilorin, I called my legal wife on the phone that she should get dressed that I will take her to Omu-Aran that morning…. I got to Tosin’s house, since her mum was around, I felt like saying hello to her. “I got there that morning. We exchanged pleasantries. Her mum said she was happy to see me and we discussed for a few minutes. Suddenly, the atmosphere changed and an argument began and before I knew it, I have stabbed her (Tosin) and her mum. Then, I came to myself; it was like a scale fell off my eyes…” The prosecutor had posited that the convict, through his confessional statement, convicted himself.