Scientists in the United Kingdom (UK) said healthy men who took the equivalent of two tablespoons of (concentrated) tomato puree a day as a supplement were found to have better quality sperm. The findings of their research were published in the ‘European Journal of Nutrition’. According to the researchers, lycopene – a nutrient found in tomatoes – may boost sperm quality. Lycopene, like vitamin E and zinc, which have been the focus of previous research, is an antioxidant, which means it prevents oxidation in cells, and therefore damage. Similarly, lycopene has been linked to other health benefits, including reducing the risk of heart disease and some cancers. The World Health Organisation (WHO) defines infertility as “a disease of the reproductive system defined by the failure to achieve a clinical pregnancy after 12 months or more of regular unprotected sexual intercourse. Available data indicates that at least 50 million couples worldwide experience infertility. A number of factors including genetics, environmental exposures and infectious diseases have been linked to infertility risk. In the current study, the team said they used a lactolycopene supplement because the nutrient in food could be harder for the body to absorb; the men would have needed to eat 2kg of cooked tomatoes each day to get the equivalent dose of lycopene. The lead the researcher Dr. Liz Williams said men are usually advised to  reduce alcohol consumption and eat a healthy diet – but these are very general messages. She added: “This was a small study and we do need to repeat the work in bigger trials, but the results are very encouraging. “The next step is to repeat the exercise in men with fertility problems and see if lycopene can increase sperm quality for those men and whether it helps couples conceive and avoid invasive fertility treatments.” The National Health Service (NHS) advice for men experiencing fertility problems currently suggested that they adopt a healthy lifestyle and wear loose-fitting underwear. It also suggested reducing stress and ensuring they have regular sex around the time their partner ovulated to maximise the chances of conception. In the 12-week trial, 60 men were randomly selected to take 14 milligrams of lactolycopene per day or a dummy pill. Their sperm was tested at the start, at six weeks and at the end of the study, and while there was no difference in sperm concentration, the proportion of healthy-shaped sperm and motility – how fast sperm can ‘swim’ – was higher in those taking lycopene.