Last Friday was a good day for fans of TV drama, MTV Shuga Naija. The premiere of the new fourth season, which was held at the cinema hall of Filmhouse Cinemas IMAX Lekki, as celebrities present had fun at viewing of the first episode of the new show. Big Brother Naija stars, Tobi Bakare and Sir Dee, Nollywood veteran, Funsho Adeolu, show hosts and actors, Osas Ighodaro and Folu Storms, MTV VJ, Sammy Walsh, Vector tha Viper, DJ Sose, actor and long term Shuga cast member, Timini were some of the top celebrities at the red carpet show of the premiere. The red carpet show was as good as a mini fashion event, with most of the guys showing up in casual chic outfits, while the ladies took things a notch higher, appearing in everything from dinner gowns to mini dresses and some well combined casual outfits. A brilliant part of the red carpet were the ushers who all appeared in the same uniforms as the students of Molade Memorial High portrayed in the TV Drama Series. The screening proper, which lasted for about an hour was hosted by Ehiz popularly known as “DadaBoy” and Bukola Oladipupo, who plays Faa on the show. At the end of the screening, all members of the cast got on stage amidst rounds of applause as viewers shared their reactions with the cast. Executive Director, MTV Staying Alive Foundation, Georgia Arnold shared her excitement on the new season: “The new series of MTV Shuga Naija has so many stories to tell. We will see characters dealing with family planning, contraception, and gender based violence among other issues – all of which are so relevant to our audience.   The cast of the series are such an integral part of the work of MTV Shuga – they are not only (brilliant) actors, but actors and ambassadors who work so hard to ensure that our messages are reaching and positively impacting young Nigerians across the country. MTV Shuga embodies our philosophy that storytelling saves lives, and we are very excited to show the world our best MTV Shuga series to date,” Arnold said. To wrap up what was already a brilliant night, everyone was hosted to an after-party which saw more stars like former Shuga cast members, Jemima Osunde and Emmanuel Ikubese and a host of others.