T he Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said a total of 2, 375, 136 voters would elect the next governors in Kogi and Bayelsa states on November 16. The breakdown of this figure showed that Kogi State has a total of 1, 485, 828 voters while Bayelsa State has 889, 308 voters. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, at a quarterly meeting with civil society organizations (CSOs) and the media, said the figures were the number of voters who collected their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) as at September 30. He disclosed that all uncollected PVCs have been retrieved from the commission’s local government areas offices and would be deposited at the branches of the Central Bank of Nigeria in Bayelsa and Kogi States “for safe keeping pending the resumption of Continuous Voter Registration (CVR).” Prof. Yakubu stated that the election would be conducted in eight local government areas in Bayelsa State, 105 registration areas and 1, 804 polling units.  For Kogi State, the INEC Chairman said the election would be conducted in 21 local government areas, 239 registration areas and 2,548 polling units. “So far, 10 out of the 14 activities have been successfully implemented, including the conduct of party primaries and the nomination of candidates.  “At the end of the process, 45 political parties in Bayelsa State (42 male and 3 female) and 23 in Kogi (21 male and 2 female) will be on the ballot. “We have already published the names of the candidates, their running mates and other details on our website. “We have similarly re-published details of the 14 candidates for Brass 1 State Constituency supplementary election in Bayelsa State and the 24 candidates for the Kogi West senatorial re-run election,” he said, but regretted that no political party nominated a Person with Disability (PWD) as its governorship candidate. The INEC chairman disclosed that the commission has accredited 135 domestic observer groups for the two states (67 for Bayelsa and 68 for Kogi), and 16 foreign observer groups (eight for each state). “We wish to remind the observer groups of the imperative of submitting their reports in line with their terms of accreditation,” he said.