A lawmaker representing Igboeze North/Udenu federal constituency of Enugu State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Simon Atigwe, has said that institutional failure was the greatest impediment to Nigeria’s development since independence. Atigwe, who stated this at the weekend while briefing journalists in Abuja, said that just as purposeful leadership was required to chart the course of a nation; strong institutions were also required in nation building. He pointed out that though these two elements might be interwoven, strong institutions were more critical at times in the life of a nation as they act as the engine room for driving the entire process of governance. He said: “With strong institutions, a nation with a misfortune of bad leadership may not suffer serious setback in her development-drive, but a country with weak or moribund institutions coupled with bad leadership, will not only be stagnated, but backward when compared with others in similar journey as it is the case with Nigeria over the years. “In all honesty, as a result of the two critical factors, we cannot compared Nigeria with India, Malaysia, Singapore, Brazil or even some African countries like Egypt, South Africa etc., as far as development-driven nationhood is concerned. “The indices are there and they clearly show that Nigeria is lagging behind. In the area of security management alone, while Nigeria has about 370, 000 policemen to police about 200 million people, Egypt, with a population of about 100 million people, has two million military personnel alone, not even police, with yearly budget of $1.3 billion (equivalent to N370.8 billion) as against N100 billion budget for the entire defence outfit in Nigeria for 2020 out of which the army just has 156,000 personnel (both officers and men). “Also, look at the energy sector, particularly power or electricity generation, transmission and distribution component of it. It is also nothing to write home about as a result of weak institutions, which has been giving successive presidents sleepless nights because without power, rate of unemployment will continue to rise. “As it is in both sectors, so it is for Nigeria in other settings, the funding are very poor for the various institutions and the required independence for them to function ethically, professional and optimally, is not also there, making them to be weak, inefficient and moribund with attendant bad governance.” He, therefore, stressed that for Nigeria to get it right, she must strengthen her institutions as the veritable foundation to facilitate development and good governance in the country. The politician also lamented that functional institutional intervention was urgently needed for government at all levels in Nigeria to get things right in terms of delivering the dividends of democracy to the people.