J ustice Mohammed Liman of a Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday ordered the forfeiture of three landed property worth over N26.63 billion belonging to Kola Aluko, an ally of a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke. The order was sequel to the granting of an ex-parte motion filed by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) through one of its lawyers, Rotimi Oyedepo.  The anti-graft agency gave the value of the landed property, located in Abuja and Lagos, as $73 million (N26.280 billion) and N350 million respectively.   Arguing the motion, Oyedepo said Section 17 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act No. 14 2016 empowered the court to make such a forfeiture order.  He alleged that the two property situated at Plot 3389 and Plot 3390, House 2, Margaret Thatcher Close, Asokoro Cadastral Zone, Abuja; as well as Avenue Towers, Plot 1391 Tiamiyu Savage Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, were procured with proceeds of unlawful activities. The lawyer further revealed that the Abuja property were purchased for N350 million and $18 million respectively, while the Lagos property was bought for $55 million.   “The property sought to be attached were reasonably suspected to be proceeds of unlawful diversion from the Federal Government of Nigeria.   “The respondent’s known and provable lawful income is far less than the property sought to be forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria,” Oyedepo said. After listening to the lawyer’s submissions, Justice Liman ordered the interim forfeiture of the property to the Federal Government.  The judge also directed the EFCC to publish the interim order in a national newspaper for the respondent (Aluko) or any other interested party to show cause why the property should not be permanently forfeited to the Federal Government.  Further hearing in the matter has been adjourned to 12th November, 2019. In an affidavit attached to the motion deposed to by one of its operatives, Sambo Mayana, EFCC said it commenced investigation into the matter after one Debo Adeniran, the Executive Chairman of the Coalition Against Corrupt Leaders, sent in “a damning intelligence report and a petition alleging fraud, lack of transparency and unethical conduct in the transfer of production rights in the oil mining leases against the respondent and his cronies.”  EFCC said its investigation revealed suspicious financial transactions involving the Aluko, KAA and Atlantic Energy Holding Limited based in the British Virgin Island.  “That the company, in the course of three years, received large suspicious transfers from two sister companies, namely: Atlantic Energy Drilling Concept Limited and Atlantic Energy Brass Development Limited, based in Nigeria,” the deponent averred.