…to camp for five months across various centres   Team Nigeria will kick-starts their preparation for the 2020 Olympic Games today according to the Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare. The Minister, who was in Lagos on another working visit where he visited the training of a private track and field club, the Making of Champions, said his ministry was ready administrative wise to begin preparations. “The journey from the administrative aspects starts on Tuesday (today), when we bring all the key stakeholders together,” he said. “The preparation for the Olympics actually starts immediately after the completion of one, so beyond what we see in Morocco and Doha, these athletes have been going for different tournaments and competitions. “Individually, they have been training so hard, that’s the preparation, they only come to championships as a group to compete and from what we saw in Morocco, which is a benchmark, same thing as what happened in Doha. “It took us seven years to get another medal at the World Athletics Championships in Doha, but there were lessons learnt from the competition. This time around, we are not starting too late and not so early, we have about nine months to go, and we will be ready.” The minister also revealed that there would be at least five months of camping as the country looks forward to winning medals. Dare said he was optimistic of the athletes competing for gold, silver and bronze medals in various sports at the Olympics. He added: “We are going to start that process;we are going to have camping in three or four different locations depending on the sports. “We are going to be focusing on sports that we can really compete and then we go there and do well. “Basically, if we have the funds, we are going to have six months of camping, in the past we usually have three months, but this time around we are looking at five.” Meanwhile, the minister said he would be meeting with all the federation presidents so as to be on the same page ahead of the Tokyo 2020 preparations. “I have a meeting with the NOC (National Olympic Committee) and all the federation presidents and the secretaries in Abuja on Tuesday so that we all will be on the same page. “We are going to be professional about this, so Olympic Games Tokyo 2020, Nigeria will not be going there to try, but we are going there to compete for the gold, bronze and silver.”