The Indian Cultural Association recently brought together Indians  living in Abuja  and the diplomatic community  to mark the Navrati Festival. ONWUKA NZESHI reports   The Navrati Festival is an annual event  celebrated in various parts of India and in many Indian communities in the Diaspora.  It is commonly referred to as the festival of light because it is observed in honour of the goddess, Durga, who battled the buffalo demon and emerged victorious  in the fight  to restore Dharma. Traditionally, the celebration lasts for a period of nine days. In Abuja, the festival was marked with lots of glamour as Indian families turned out in their traditional attires to showcase their  rich cultural heritage. The event, which held at the premises of the Indian High Commission,  Central Business District, Abuja, featured music and cultural dances by beautifully dressed  women and children. The scenes were much like what one sees on  a typical Bollywood film as the cultural displays were beamed live on a large screen on the colourful  stage. The Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, His Excellency, Mr Abhay Thakur,  who witnessed the ceremony alongside   his wife,  Dr (Mrs) Surabhi Thakur, performed the   ceremonial lighting of lights at the beginning of Indian events. Addressing the gathering, he explained that  Navrati was a festival of lights that  had its roots in an ancient Indian festival. According to the envoy, the event was about the nine days tradition of victory of good over evil and each of the days has its own celebration since the event is centred on the goddess Durga and the many folklores around her. “It is celebrated in many parts of India and everyday has its own significance. What is very important is that there are many forms of depicting the battle between good and evil, including in dances, in cultural manifestations,” he said. Thakur explained that the special   ‘Dandiya’ dance  in which ladies  with two sticks in their hands, dancing in pairs was a  very significant part of the festival.  According to him,  it  “is supposed to be the dance of good over evil and also reflect our internal battle,” as human beings. “In India, there are three types of elements namely: Tamsik, Rajsik and the third, Satrik. While Tamsik signifies something evil, Rajsik stood for oil and Satrik represented sage-like, the strongest character and highest form of existence. “Over these nine days, three days are dedicated to Tamsik, three to Rajsik and the final three is the victory of good over evil dedicated to Satrik,” he said. Thakur described the cultural cooperation between India and Nigeria, as excellent, stressing that both countries have  witnessed regular cultural exchanges. He disclosed that recently,   a cultural troupe from Chhattisgarh, one of the provinces of India, came to the High Commission to perform folk dances similar in some ways to Nigerian folk dances. The envoy further disclosed that in November, another cultural troupe from India will be visiting Nigeria on the invitation of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), adding that there will be more cultural exchanges between both countries in the future. Thakur explained that the relationship  between Nigeria and India was  not limited to the field of culture alone, recalling that a number  of Nigerian students  go to India in pursuit  of educational excellence.  He disclosed that the Vice Chancellor of the University of Abuja recently visited  New Delhi on the invitation of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. “I think things are happening consistently and we are happy to constantly exchange cultural impressions. Just two days ago, we released postal stamp for Mahatma Gandhi and I think the whole wide spectrum of cultural cooperation between India and Nigeria is being tapped, is being addressed and is being intensified as we go along,” he said. President of the Indian Cultual Association,  Panisua Elvis,   said the  festival was an opportunity for the Indian community  in Nigeria to  come together to celebrate their culture and share beautiful moments with one another. He  said Nigeria can learn  from India as there  was a specific message about the culture of the people in the celebration. There were also a variety of Indian cuisines on display with lots of drinks to go with them.  At the end of the ceremonies, various awards were presented  to deserving members of the association and corporate sponsors of the event.