For most people in Abuja, it is all work and no play. But whenever an opportunity for fun surfaces, everybody wants to have that good laugh. One of such moments was the day Agbarho Musical stormed Abuja. REGINA OTOKPA reports It was a night of intense fun and laughter as residents of Abuja came out in their numbers to watch the Agbarho Musical: a stage drama, parading some prominent Nollywood actors. The story is woven around a young woman, Ese, who lost her husband to cancer. She was cursed and rejected by her inlaws and had a hard time with her father. However, her life took a dramatic turn, rekindling strong vibes of hope. Ese’s life took a turn for the better as her natural talent of singing brought her to limelight. Thus she came, she sang and she conquered. The star studded play, which performance took place at the Congress hall of Transcorp Hilton’, was produced by Patrick Otoro and sponsored by the MTN foundation. It had the likes of Richard Mofe-Damijo, Hilda Dokubo and a host of others. The captivating drama took the audience to Urhobo land in Delta State, Youruba land, Hausa land, Igbo land as well as Bayelsa and Benue states. The various scenes showed the diverse cultures of Nigeria wrapped around the characters, uniting them in a circle. Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who obviously had a swell time watching the drama, noted that it had a message of hope which resonates unity in diversity for Nigeria. Speaking to Inside Abuja, Mustapha said he had a good laugh and learnt a lot more about Nigeria. “It was a combination of intense passion, drill, love, the diversity of our people but at the end of it all, you summed it in a beautiful way. It came out depicting that as a nation, we could have our differences, we could have diversities but the beauty about it is that we are an intense people, we are a loving people, we are a kind people we are an understanding people and that reflects who we are. “We acknowledge our differences. We acknowledge the diversities of our people, we acknowledge the fact that there are challenges but the resilience of the Nigerian people is what makes us a great nation,”he said. Mustapha, who commended the MTN Foundation for investing in the play, pledged government’s commitment towards protecting the intellectual property rights of Nigerians. “Actors and actresses don’t get commensurate benefits for the work they do because of leakages in terms of piracy of there products and their property rights are not protected. This is why government must step in to protect and secure their property rights,” he said. Expressing its willingness to further promote arts and culture,especially theatre across Nigeria, MTN Foundation disclosed that investing in the play was another way of engaging and empowering many youths while promoting unity in diversity. Senior Manager, Programmes Implementation, MTN Foundation, Abasi-Ekong Udobang, said the organisation through it’s corporate social investment, was committed to investing in the areas of youth empowerment, mother and child health and arts and culture. “We believe that it is important to continue to invest in art and culture to make that space vibrant especially in theatre. We are really trying to promote the resurgence and the reawakening of theatre across the country that’s why we are trying to support this particular sort of initiative. “The impact is so far reaching, there are a lot of young people in the production and it encourages a lot of young people to get involved in the whole value chain from actors to lighting. Apart from promoting a very strong message about unity and inter cultural understanding, it also has an economic dimension to it,” he said. Udobang further noted that besides the various initiatives in the pipeline, its just concluded Theatre for School Initiative is aimed at identifying and supporting talents at the grassroot while at the same time making conscious efforts to touch different stars in the art and culture space. Months after its successful run December last year, Moremi the Musical returned on stage for Easter edition of the awe-inspiring theatrical performance.   Moremi the Musical which opened penultimate Saturday and continues this weekend, is a story of love, faith, honour and the ultimate sacrifice. It seeks to honour… In "Arts & Entertainments" Oba Olusegun Ayodele Akinbola reigns as the Aladeokun of Alade in Idanre, Ondo State. A former lecturer in Department of Theatre Arts at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, he told Flora Onwudiwe how his experience in the world of theatre has helped him as a monarch. He also talked about… In "Saturday Extra" When a truly talented musician in the mould of Aramide makes an announcement regarding an upcoming concert, it is certain to get most, if not, all her fans, excited. Apart from the great music and honest conversations that are sure to emerge with such an event, the immeasurably rousing… In "Show Biz"