 Onyekachi Eze, ABUJA  National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said President Muhammadu Buhari presented voodoo budget to the National Assembly. Secondus, who spoke Friday when he inaugurated three committees for the November 16 Kogi and Bayelsa state governorship elections, said the budget was presented without estimates. The bodies are the National Campaign Council for the two states as well as the Reconciliation Committee. The immediate past President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki heads the Reconciliation Committee while Governors Bala Mohammed and Seyi Makinde are chairmen of the Bayelsa and Kogi campaign councils respectively. Secondus regretted that the National Assembly was already debating the budget without the details. “Even if you want to support the executive, we should not hurry over night to pass the budget without the estimates. Before we know it we will see that the budget has been passed without estimates,” he said. He accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of working for inclusive elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. “We are aware that APC has chosen the option of violence knowing what awaits them at the ballot box. Unfortunately, Nigeria security agencies that are aware of these evil plots of the APC,” Secondus stated. According to him, the enviable achievements of PDP in Bayelsa State in delivering democracy dividend to the people in the last eight years, while the poor performance of APC government in Kogi State, would be a smooth contest for the PDP. “Intelligence available to the party shows that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is planning charade elections in these states as was witnessed in Ekiti, Osun, Kano and Kaduna states. “We want to warn INEC that we are aware of their rigging romance with the APC in the November 16 elections in these two states. “I wish therefore to call on the international community and all lovers of democracy to show more than passing interest in the forthcoming elections in the two states,” he added.