Tribunals affirm Ganduje, Wike, Umahi, Okowa,  Sanwo-Olu, Tambuwal, others’ elections   Governors, opponents head to Appeal Court  FELIX NWANERI reports on the judgements of the various governorship election petition tribunals in the states where gubernatorial elections held during the 2019 general election, which have mainly seen the affirmation of those declared winners by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  I t has been torrent of judgements from the various Governorship Elections Petition Tribunal entertaining suits, challenging some of the outcomes of the March 9 gubernatorial election held in 29 out of the country’s 36 states. The states are Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta, Enugu, Taraba, Abia, Imo, Oyo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Sokoto, Rivers, Lagos, Ogun, Kebbi, Niger, Kaduna, Plateau, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa, Kano, Kwara and Gombe. The governorship elections did not hold in seven states – Kogi, Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Osun and Ekiti as a result of the interregnum by the courts. While the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), won in Lagos, Ogun, Kebbi, Niger, Kaduna, Plateau, Jigawa, Zamfara, Borno, Katsina, Yobe, Nasarawa, Kano, Kwara and Gombe states; the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) The states won in Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Ebonyi, Delta, Enugu, Taraba, Abia, Imo, Oyo, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Sokoto and Rivers states. As expected after elections, the victors celebrated their victory and were inaugurated, while the losers cried foul and headed to the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in their respective states to seek justice. But, after interesting legal battles at the various tribunals, the judgements so far have only affirmed the results as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as none of the results of the governorship elections has been upturned by the court of first instance. However, it is not yet over as the petitioners still have two more legs to go. Already, a majority of them have vowed to challenge the respective judgements of the various tribunals at the Court of Appeal. Unlike before, the cases would have ended at the Court or Appeal, but for the amendment to the Constitution and Electoral Act, which paved the way for the Supreme Court to be the final arbiter on petitions over governorship elections. According to the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), governorship election cases traverse a journey of three steps. They start at the tribunals, from where they move to Court of Appeal and terminate at the Supreme Court. Kaduna: Ashiru fails to prove claims against el-Rufai It was victory for Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasri el-Rufai as the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Kaduna affirmed him as the duly elected governor of the state. INEC had declared el-Rufai, who contested the election on the platform of the APC as the winner of the March 9 election, but the his main challenger and the candidate of the PDP, Isa Ashiru, headed to the tribunal on the ground that the poll was characterised by irregularities. But, delivering judgement on Ashiru’s petition, chairman of the three-man panel, Justice Ibrahim Bako, said the petitioner was unable to prove his allegations of massive rigging and other electoral irregularities. Consequently, the tribunal struck out the petition for lack of substantial evidence. The petitioner, had in his final written address on August 19, asked the tribunal to cancel 515,951 votes, which he alleged were unlawfully added to the total votes cast during the election. He called 135 witnesses out of the 685 he mentioned in the petition to prove alleged massive rigging, ballot stuffing and other irregularities during the election. But, Justice Bako said the signatures of most of the 135 witnesses the petitioners presented in their written statements as deposed before the tribunal did not match with the specimens taken when they testified in court. He also said that some of the names of the witnesses did not match with the names on the voters’ cards, which they presented before the tribunal. While el-Rufai welcomed the affirmation of his re-election and called on all residents of the state to join hands in progressive endeavours for peace and development of the state, Kaduna State chairman of the PDP, Hassan Hyat, said the party executive would meet with the counsel and take a decision on the next line of action. According to him, the tribunal’s decision was the first stage of the petition as the party will soon come out with a position. Ogun: Akinlade’s petition against Abiodun ‘destined’ to fail In Ogun State, Governor Dapo Abiodun also had his election affirmed by the Governorship Election Petition sitting in Abeokuta. The tribunal, which dismissed the suit by the governorship candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Adekunle Akinlade, said the petition was destined to fail. “The petition is destined to fail, it failed and is hereby dismissed,” the chairman of the three-man tribunal, Justice Yusuf Halilu, stated. Akinlade had prayed the tribunal to disqualify Abiodun on grounds of submitting false academic qualification, but Justice Halilu held that the suit was stuck out because the case had been laid to rest by the Court of Appeal. Adding that petitioner would not be allowed to resurrect or open same matter at the tribunal since the appellate court had deemed it “statue barred,” the judge also noted that the petitioner filed the application outside the window of time allowed. Kano: Ganduje triumphs as Yusuf’s petition fails It was relief for Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, who fought the   political battle of his life to return to power as the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Kano dismissed the petition that challenged his victory. Ganduje, who contested the poll on the platform of the APC was declared winner by INEC after a supplementary poll on March 23, but Abba Yusuf of the PDP and his party filed a petition against the governor, his party and the electoral commission (INEC) to challenge the poll’s outcome. Whereas Yusuf prayed the tribunal to set aside the election on the ground that it was fraught with irregularities, Ganduje insisted that the petitioners failed to prove that the election was rigged. In its judgement, the tribunal, headed by Justice Halima Shamaki, not only upheld Ganduje’s election, but dismissed Yusuf’s petition. The three judges on the tribunal unanimously adopted the judgement. Justice Shamaki said INEC was right both in declaring the March 9 election as inconclusive and in declaring Ganduje the winner of the re-run election. According to her, declaring an election as inconclusive, where there are lawful reasons, is constitutional. She further held that the petitioners’ claim that electoral rules and guidelines were not complied with in an election they claimed to have won the majority of lawful votes is a paradox. “It’s like trying to mix oil and water,” the judge said. She added that the petitioners failed to prove the allegations of corrupt practices and non-compliance by the respondents beyond reasonable doubt. Her words: “The carbonised copies of documentary evidence tendered by the petitioners were mostly unstamped, some are unsigned, others contained re-written data, hence amounted to documentary hearsay and therefore inadmissible. “We shall not go into details in the petition. He who asserts must prove beyond a reasonable doubt. Respondents are not bound to prove. In civil cases, the burden to prove lies on the plaintiff. Where the plaintiff fails to prove his case, the case must fail. As such, the petition is hereby dismissed.” The state chapter chairman of the PDP, Rabi’u Suleiman-Bichi, in his reaction to the judgement, said they will study it and decide on the next line of action. Ganduje, on his part, described the judgement as another round of victory. “When the election was held, we won, but the opposition PDP decided to challenge our victory at the election tribunal. It is clear to all now that our victory is genuine as confirmed by the tribunal.” Rivers: Wike trounces AAC, ADP candidates For Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, it was double victory at the tribunal, following the dismissal of the petition filed by the governorship candidates of African Action Congress (AAC) and Action Democratic Party (ADP), Biokpomabo Awara and Victor Fingesi, respectively. Both candidates sought the nullification of the poll that produced Wike of the PDP as governor of the oil-rich state. In separate judgements on the matter, the tribunal said Wike was duly elected and that INEC was right in announcing him winner of the poll. The tribunal added that both petitioners failed to prove their claim that the election was marred by violence and irregularities. Justice K. B. Olawoyin, who delivered judgement on AAC’s petition, declared that Wike won in 19 of the 21 local government areas where elections held, while the petitioner won in two local government areas. He further held that Awara failed to provide evidence on his claim violence, adding that what was suspended was the collation of results for six local government areas and not the entire election as the petitioner claimed. According to the judge, as at the time of the suspension of collation, INEC had concluded collation of results in 17 local government areas. He stated that by participating in the collation process, the petitioner had waived his right to complain. He also ruled that the results tendered by the petitioner, while giving evidence were inadmissible and, therefore, expunged from the records. The petition by the ADP candidate – Fingesi – was also dismissed as the chairman of the tribunal, Justice K.A. Orjiako, in a unanimous judgement, described the petition as an adventure to discover the non-existent. According to judge, Fingesi lacked the locus standi to file the petition. He held that inconsistent facts contained in the petition filed by the ADP governorship candidate made it incompetent. The tribunal said the petitioner wrote that he was challenging the election of the first petitioner. It said an election petition must challenge the person returned as winner and not the petitioner. “We hold firmly that the petitioner has failed woefully in proving his allegations. The petition lacks merit and is hereby dismissed,” the judge said. While counsel to the ADP candidate, Dolapo-Tella Attoni, said he will consult his client on the next line of action as there many grounds of appeal against the judgement, Awara’s counsel, Henry Bello, emphatically said his client will appeal the judgement. But, Wike, in his reaction, said all PDP candidates in the state during the 2019 general election had virtually no opponents. “It is so painful that someone could say that no election held in Rivers State. There was nobody who ran the election against us,” he said. Imo: Ihedioha scales APC, AA, APGA’s hurdle It was a hat trick for Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State as the state’s Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Abuja affirmed his election. The trio of Hope Uzodinma (APC), Uche Nwosu (Action Alliance – AA) and Ifeanyi Araraume (All Progressives Grand Alliance – APGA) had asked the tribunal to nullify the election of Ihedioha (PDP) on the ground that he was unlawfully declared as the governor of Imo state by INEC. According to the petitioners, the March 9, governorship election, through which Ihedioha emerged was marred by irregularities. But, the tribunal held that the three petitions lacked merit. Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Mallami Umar-Dogondagi, in his judgement, dismissed the petition by Nwosu of AA for incompetence. In a unanimous decision, the three-member panel also struck out the petition by the APC and APGA candidates, Uzodinma and Araraume, respectively The tribunal held that the petitioners failed to discharge the burden of proof placed on them by the law. Benue: Jime’s petition against Ortom dismissed Another governor, who had his election upheld, is Samuel Ortom of Benue State. The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Makurdi, ruled that he was duly elected governor of the state. The three-member tribunal headed by Justice Henry Olusiyi, dismissed the petition by the candidate of the APC, Emmanuel Jime and his party for lack of merit and declared Ortom of the PDP as winner of the poll. Jime had claimed that the election was marred with irregularities, over-voting and substantial non-compliance with the Electoral Act and prayed the court to declare him winner on the ground that he scored majority of lawful votes cast with a margin of 2,224 votes or nullify Ortom’s election and order the conduct of a fresh election in the state.   The APC governorship candidate challenged the results declared in Buruku, Gboko, Guma, Gwer East, Gwer West, Konshisha, Kwande, Logo, Ukum, Ushongo and Vandeikya localgovernment areas of the state. During the hearing, the petitioner called 59 witnesses, who testified that they witnessed irregularities, over voting and other electoral malpractices perpetrated by the PDP and INEC. Jime, on his part, tendered over 1,100 electoral documents, including forms EC8A, EC8B, EC8C, EC8D, EC8E, voters register and card reader reports. He also tendered 2019 manual and guidelines for electoral officials in 384 Polling Units across 11 local government areas in contention.  However, Ortom, INEC and PDP asked the tribunal to strike out the petition in its entirety for lacking in merit.  But, Justice Olusiyi faulted the testimonies of the petitioner’s witnesses. According to him, none of them substantiated their claims of over voting and other irregularities alleged. The judge further said that the petitioner failed to link the documents tendered in evidence to the petition. According to him, the petitioner dumped the documents on the tribunal.  He also said that until the National Assembly amends the constitution, the voters’ register remains the only document that can ascertain the number of registered voters and not the smart card readers.   Bauchi: Mohammed floors Abubakar a second time It was another victory for Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, who unseated Mohammed Abubakar as governor of the north eastern state in the general elections as the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal upheld his election.   Mohammed was the candidate of the PDP in the election, while Abubakar, the then incumbent governor of the state, was the standard bearer of the APC. Abubakar and his party had filed a petition against Mohammed, PDP and INEC to challenge the governor’s victory in the March 23 supplementary election in the state.    The petitioners alleged widespread irregularities in 336 polling units in Tafawa Balewa, Bogoro and Bauchi local government areas of the state. Consequently, they urged the tribunal to nullify the election held in polling units in the councils and declare Abubakar as winner of the election, having scored the highest valid votes, or in the alternative, order the conduct   of a fresh election in the affected areas. However, Mohammed and his party urged the tribunal to dismiss the petition on the grounds that it lacked merit The tribunal answered the governor’s prayer as it dismissed the petition on the ground that Mohammed was duly elected with majority votes. Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Salihu Shuaibu, who read the unanimous judgement of the three-man panel, said INEC was right both in declaring the March 9 election as inconclusive and in declaring Mohammed the winner of the re-run election that was held thereafter. He added that the petitioners failed to prove their allegations of corrupt practices and non-compliance with the Electoral Act by the respondents.  “We shall not go into details in the petition; he who asserts must prove beyond all reasonable doubts,” he said. Delta: Ogboru fails to stop Okowa For Chief Great Ogboru, who made several attempts to govern oil-rich Delta State, what he could not get through the ballot in the March 9 governorship election also failed at the tribunal.  The businessman turned politician, who who was the candidate of the APC in the election, had approached the Delta State Governorship Petition Tribunal that sat in Asaba, possibly to turn the table against Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of the PDP. But his hope was dashed as the tribunal affirmed the re-election of Governor Okowa. Chairman of the three-man tribunal, Justice Suleiman Belgore, described the petition filed by Ogboru and his party as “opportunistic and gold digging.”   The judge also held that the petitioner failed to prove that Okowa was not duly elected by majority of lawful votes cast during the election and consequently dismissed the petition in its entirety. Akwa Ibom: Emmanuel dusts Ekere After a grueling poll in which he brushed opposition’s threat to return to power, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State also scaled another hurdle at the tribunal.  The governor was elected for a second term in office on the platform of the PDP, after defeating his APC rival, Nsima Ekere of APC and others. But, the former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), who alleged irregularities during the election, approached the tribunal to nullify the process. His petition was however dismissed by the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal that sat in Uyo. In a unanimous decision, the tribunal said the petition lacked merit. Emmanuel, who commended the judgement and dedicated his victory to God and the people the state, called on the opposition in Akwa Ibom to join him in developing the state.  According to him, the time has come for the people to come together and move the state forward as the ‘Completion Agenda’ was an Akwa Ibom Agenda. Taraba: Danladi’s petition against Ishaku hit the rocks Taraba State governor, Darius Ishaku, who won the March 9 election on the platform of the PDP, equally triumphed at the tribunal as the petition against his victory by his APC counterpart, Sani Danladi, was dismissed.  The Governorship Election Tribunal, headed by Justice M.O. Adewara, which affirmed Ishaku’s election, held that the petitioner failed to prove his claim that the election was marred with irregularities and substantial non-compliance with the Electoral Act. Justice Adewara, who read the lead judgement, held that Danladi was not qualified to contest the 2019 election.  He also noted that the affirmation of the judgement by the Supreme Court implied that the APC had no valid candidate in the election. Katsina: Lado’s bid to upturn Masari’s victory fails In a split decision of two to one, the Katsina State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Abuja, held that the candidate of the PDP, Senator Yakubu Lado, failed to prove his allegation of substantial non-compliance to the Electoral Act in the conduct of the poll that saw the re-election of Governor Aminu Masari.   However, the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Alli Jos, in a dissenting judgement, allowed the petition and ordered a fresh election in the state. His dissenting judgement was read by another member of the panel. Lado, who contested the election on the platform of the PDP, had asked the tribunal to overturn the declaration of Governor Masari of the APC.  He predicated his petition on the grounds that Masari falsified his age and academic qualifications in the affidavit submitted alongside his INEC nomination form. But, the tribunal in its final analysis held that evidence of witnesses and some others is of no probative value since they confirmed that they gave their statements in Hausa language, whereas the Hausa versions were not before the tribunal. Abia: Otti fails to prove claims against Ikpeazu’s victory The gale of affirmation of election of governors continued in Abia State, where the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Umuahia dismissed the petition, which challenged the election of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu.  The candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr Alex Otti, had approached the tribunal to nullify the declaration of PDP’s Ikpeazu as winner of the March 9 election. Otti, who came third in the poll, alleged that Ikpeazu did not win majority of lawful votes cast during the election. He therefore prayed the tribunal to declare the election invalid by reasons of criminal practices, nonsubstantial compliance with the electoral guidelines, and over voting in 788 polling units. But, the tribunal’s chairman, Justice Lekan Ogumonye, who read the unanimous judgement of the threeman panel, dismissed Otti’s petition over his inability to prove the allegations beyond reasonable doubts.  The tribunal held that the 65 polling units agents, who appeared as witnesses for the petitioners, could not give sufficient evidences to prove allegations of over voting in 788 polling units. It further held that if even there were some infractions in said polling units, they were not substantial to invalidate the entire election. Nasarawa: Sule triumphs over Ombugadu Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule, equally had his election affirmed by the tribunal as the petition filed by the candidate of the PDP, David Ombugadu, was dismissed due to lack of merit. Ombugadu, a former member of the House of Representatives, had challenged the outcome of the election on account of alleged unlawful declaration of Sule as winner of the poll. The PDP candidate also claimed that the poll did not comply with provisions of the Electoral Act 2010.   He further claimed intimidation of voters and unlawful cancellation of votes during the election. Delivering judgement on his petition, Justice Abba Mohammed, who chaired the tribunal, held that the petitioner failed to prove his allegations.  The judge also held that Ombugadu failed to prove how collation of results was disrupted. “The burden of prove lay with the petitioner and he has failed to prove the allegations. The petitioner has failed to produce two sets of results –original and fake – to prove that the outcome was falsified in favour of APC candidate. “Hence he failed to prove that, we therefore, uphold the result declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).”  Justice Mohammed averred. Sokoto: Aliyu fails to stop Tambuwal Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, also had his election upheld by the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal for the state that sat in Abuja.  The three man tribunal dismissed the petition of the APC and its governorship candidate, Ahmed Aliyu, for lacking in merit. Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Abbas Bawale, in his judgement, said the petitioners failed to establish their claims of the poll’s non-compliance with the Electoral Act and over voting. Bawale also said the evidences of the petitioners’ witnesses amounted to hearsay, and as a result, could not prove any of the allegations.   had asked the tribunal to upturn the declaration of Tambuwal, who contested the election on the platform of the PDP on the ground that the exercise was marred by irregularities. The Sokoto State governorship election which held on March 9 was declared inconclusive following cancellation of 75,403 votes which were higher than the 3,413 margin between the leading candidates.  However, Tambuwal won the March 23 supplementary, with a slim margin of 342 votes. Cross River: Ayade knocks out Owan-Enoh It was also victory for Governor Ben Ayade as the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in Cross River State upheld his election. PDP’s Ayade had his victory at the poll challenged by the candidate of the APC, Senator John Owan-Enoh on the ground that he was wrongfully excluded from participating in the election. In his ruling on the petition, the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Josiah Majebi, said that the first and second grounds of the petition were irreconcilable and mutually exclusive. He said that in the first place, the petitioner failed to seek redress within the legally specified 14 days allowed for complaints.  The tribunal strongly disagreed with the petitioner that he was wrongfully excluded by the second respondent, INEC, stressing that much of the grievances expressed in the petition were pre-election matters, which the tribunal has no jurisdiction to entertain. “Any disputes within a given political party which stands election before actual election such as nomination or withdrawal or exclusion are pre-election issues. Our mandates don’t cover them. Therefore, such are ineffective grounds. We therefore strike them and such others out for incompetence,” the judge held. He also held that there were multiplicity of litigations by interested parties of the APC regarding the governorship election, which according to him, complicated the petition.  The judge said after carefully consideration of the applications, written addresses and counter responses by the respondents, the tribunal came to the conclusion that many views of the petitioner did not only lacked merit, but amounted to gross abuse of court processes. He maintained that the petition is academic, hypothetical and frivolous, adding that “the petitioner’s allegation that he was excluded from the election yet he scored valid votes of 131,161 takes his petition contradictory.” Plateau: Useni vows to fight on after losing to Lalong Plateau state was not left out in the affirmation of election of sitting governors as the state’s Governorship Election Petition Tribunal upheld Governor Simon Lalong’s victory in the gubernatorial poll. Lalong, who was the candidate of the APC in the election, had his victory challenged by Senator Jeremiah Useni of the PDP.  The latter had prayed the tribunal to declare him winner of the election on the grounds of disparity in the names supplied by Governor Lalong in Form CF001 and irregularities during the conduct of the poll. However, Justice Halima Salami, who led the tribunal, held that the petitioner did not adequately prove his case. She further held that Useni failed to prove his allegation of electoral irregularities bothering on falsifications of results and over-voting. While Lalong, through his counsel, Pius Akuboh (SAN), commended the tribunal for the verdict, Useni, through his counsel, Edward Pwajok (SAN), said he will appeal against the judgement.  ”There are many bus stops in judiciary and we will challenge the verdict in a higher court. The tribunal has done its work, but it is long journey. Thank God there are higher levels as the judgement itself has already formulated many grounds for appeal,” he said.  Kwara: Abdulrazaq floors Atunwa again It was another victory for the APC governorship candidate in Kwara State in the March 9 election, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq over his PDP counterpart, Razak Atunwa. Abdulrazaq emerged tops in the election by a landslide, but Atunwa prayed the tribunal to sack the governor on the ground of certificate forgery.  The PDP candidate particularly challenged the authenticity of the West African Examination Council (WAEC) result presented by Governor Abdulrazaq as well as his competence to contest the poll. But, the chairman of the tribunal, Justice Bassey Effiong, in his judgement, said all documents and certificates presented by the respondent during the election were not forged. According to the judge, Governor Abdulrazaq did not violate the provisions of Sections 177 of the Constitution based on the certificates he presented to contest the election.  He held that the word “Rahaman” was valid and that the assertion that the name written on the certificates did not start with “Abdul” is not a strong argument.  He maintained the petitioner was not able to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt as enshrined in Sections 35(5)(6) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). Reacting to the judgement, the governor described it as triumph of truth over falsehood and a sweet victory for Kwarans. His words: “This judgement affirms the truism that never will falsehood triumph over truth nor evil over good till the end of time no matter the efforts or public grandstanding of the purveyors of such falsehood.” Lagos: Sanwo-Olu’s victory affirmed as Awamaridi fails to prove claims Another governor, who had his election upheld by the tribunal, is Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State.  The Lagos State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal, headed by Justice T. T Asua, in a unanimous decision, dismissed the petition filed by the Labour Party (LP) and its candidate, Ifagbemi Awamaridi, The tribunal held that its earlier decision to dismiss the petition, which was later appealed by the petitioners’, was still valid because the petition was not filed according to the laws governing the electoral laws. The tribunal further described the petition as a “futile and wasteful exercise.” It also ruled that the petitioners could not prove their allegations of mental incompetence against Sanwo- Olu as well as their allegations of election malpractices against the governor and his party – APC.  Oyo: Adelabu fails to nullify Makinde’s election The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Ibadan, Oyo State, also upheld the election of Seyi Makinde. Makinde contested the election on the platform of the PDP, but his APC counterpart, Adebayo Adelabu, who felt dissatisfied with the outcome of the poll, approached the tribunal, seeking the nullification of the election. But, in a unanimous judgement by Justice Sirajo Muhammed, the threemember tribunal said the petitioner failed to prove allegations of corrupt practices, over-voting, improper accreditation, inaccurate ballot counting and non-compliance with the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended).  Niger: Nasko’s bid to stop Bello flops Niger State was also not left out in the affirmation trend as the state’s Governorship Election Petition Tribunal upheld Governor Sani Bello’s election. Bello was the standard bearer of the APC in the election, but his PDP counterpart Umar Nasko, alleged forgery and falsification of documents against the governor.  However, Nasko’s petition hit the rocks as the tribunal ruled the he failed produce necessary authority to authenticate the documents being alleged to be false. On the allegation that the election was marred with intimidation, violence, vote-buying among other acts of irregularities, the tribunal held that the petition was bereft of pieces of evidence hence Nasko’s failure to prove his case. Chairman of the tribunal, Justice John Igboji said: “We have come to the inevitable conclusion that the petitioner failed to establish his case as there is no shred of cogent evidence in proof of the allegation as required by relevant laws.  “In the circumstance we accordingly hold that the petitioner is not entitled to any relief sought, his petition being bereft of any merit and the petition is hereby dismissed for lack of merit.” Ebonyi: Easy victory for Umahi over Agha The story was the same in Ebonyi State, where the Election Petition Tribunal that sat in Abakaliki, the capital, upheld the election of Governor David Umahi of the PDP. Umahi’s victory at the poll was challenged by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), Chief Ajah Agha, on the ground of unlawful exclusion of his name from the ballot paper.  Delivering judgement on the matter, Justice A.B Abdukarim, who headed the three-man tribunal, dismissed the petition for lacking in merit. “PDM did not submit the name of its candidate to INEC when it was supposed to do so. Your party sent the name three days after closure of submission according to finding. “Also your party did not organise primaries as to produce a candidate according to INECs guideline, therefore, your petition lacks merit,” he stated.  Adamawa: Another triumph for Fintiri over Bindow It was also victory for Governor Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa State at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal. Fintiri of the PDP had unseated Jibrila Bindow of the APC, but the latter filed a petition at the tribunal, seeking nullification of the governorship election. But, Justice Adediran Adebara, who read the judgement of the tribunal, dismissed the petition on two grounds, thereby affirming the victory of Governor Fintiri. The judge held that the petitioner failed to provide substantial evidence to prove allegations of overvoting and non-compliance to the electoral law in the conduct of the election.