 … Says other parties are full of charlatans  The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as an “irresponsible and rudderless party”.  APC similarly described other opposition parties as parties of charlatans, noting that Nigeria was tilting towards a one party state for lack of vibrant opposition.  According to APC in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu in Abuja, there is nothing the opposition are providing as alternative.  The ruling party opinionated that Nigeria was becoming a one party state since there was no vibrancy from the opposition parties. The APC, which is in court with the opposition over the result of the 2019 presidential election said: “Nigeria deserves a strong, vibrant opposition to play its conventional role in the polity to deepen democracy. Sadly, Nigeria is becoming a one-party state. As a party that believes in democracy and progressive politics, we cannot pretend any longer.  “Democracy cannot be said to be fully operational in a situation where the supposed ‘main’ opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has become a joke, irresponsible and rudderless. “Even as the governing party, we recognise the importance of rigorous and intelligent interrogation of our policies and programmes by the opposition.  “There are a lot to gain by our democracy and our country in an atmosphere of robust engagement by responsible and patriotic opposition. The political system we practice has important roles for the political parties outside of power. The system envisaged that such parties would provide alternative viewpoints and put the governing party on its toes.”  Carpeting the opposition style of PDP and other parties, the APC said: “Instead, the PDP and their minions have in the name of opposition continued to distract the government and Nigerians with their post-election delusions, salacious fictions, conjured rifts in government circle and of course the lowest of it all, the pathetic and senseless Jubril of Sudan malicious tale, among other fake news. Tragic!” 