…as Lille host Valencia in Champions League today  …eagles striker can wreck any team – Esin   S uper Eagles striker Victor Osimhen will be looking forward to scoring his second UEFA Champions League goal and lead his French side Lille to their first victory in the tournament when they confront Valencia today and his national teammate Samuel Chukwueze warned the Spanish side the striker could wreck them.   Osimhen announced his arrival on the big stage when he scored Lille’s only goal in their 2-1 loss to Chelsea on Match Day 2 to the admiration of Blues coach Frank Lampard who rated the Nigerian as the biggest threat for his side in the encounter.   Lille Metropolle has been the slaughter slab for Osimhen where he has scored eight of his side 12 goals on that ground ands it remains to be seen how Valencia will stop the rampaging striker.  Chukwueze knows all about the qualities of the Lille number seven, having played together with him in the Golden Eaglets, Flying Eagles and Olympic Team before they were promoted to the Super Eagles and the youngster has warned the Spanish side to watch out for his teammate.    “He is a great player, he has a lot of speed and [eye for] goal, he reads [the opposition] very well. He is a very complete forward,” Chukwueze told Spanish online news outlet, Superdeporte.es.  Ex-international, Etim Esin, believes Osimhen has proved he can hold his own against any team in the world and challenged the striker to maintain the consistency.  “Osimhem is a huge talent; he is proving that he can become one of the biggest forwards in the world and you saw the way he played against Chelsea in their last match in the Champions League, he showed class.   “I look forward to another fantastic showing from him when they play on Wednesday again. I want to see that consistency because that is what is important for a youngster. He needs to keep working hard and Champions League is a big stage for him to show the world he is getting to that level where he will be regarded as one of the best,” he said.