*As petrol tanker tumbles, spills contents on Otedola Bridge Tragedy yesterday struck in Lagos with two buildings collapsing in different parts of the state killing a mother, two children and her sister.  Sunday Telegraph learnt that the fatalities occurred the building that collapsed in the Magodo area of metropolis, while there were no casualties in the one that collapsed in Ikorodu.  In the Magodo incident, it was learnt that that the building caved in on Orisa Street leaving the woman, her children and sister dead.  This was even a fully loaded truck with 45000 litres of PMS tumbled on the Otedola Bridge, outward Lagos. The accident was the third to have occurred on the bridge in recent time.  Confirming the tragic incidences, the General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, said that the building collapse occurred at Orisa Street, Magodo, adding that the four lives lost were the mother, her two children and another lady identified as the woman’s sister.  He confirmed that they were  trapped in the collapsed building, explaining  that a building on Otun Araromi in Orisa street suddenly collapsed from the top of the hill onto another building.  He said: ”On arrival at the scene it was discovered that a building on Otun Araromi in Orisa Street had suddenly collapsed from the top of the hill onto another building down the street. The effect of which led to four people killed.”  However, another building also collapsed at Ita Elewa, rea of Ikorodu yesterday.  Osanyintolu blamed the heavy downpour for the disaster, adding that the impact of the intense rainfall could be responsible for the Ikorodu incident.  ”Further investigations revealed that aside the heavy downpour, the obviously old building constructed with mud bricks, had been seriously distressed over time with visible cracks on its other yet-to-collapse sides. The old storey building, which collapsed this morning at Rademo Street, behind Recreation Centre, Ita Elewa Ikorodu, has so far not recorded any loss of life, nor injuries as time of filling this report,” he said  He also said efforts were on to clear the Otedola Bridge of the tanker and its spilt contents in order to reduce the traffic gridlock along the axis.