Catholic Bishops in Nigeria have commenced the process that would lead to the beatification and canonization of a 14- old virgin, Vivian Ogu, as a saint under the watch and perfection of the Vatican in Rome. Nigeria had produced Blessed Cyprian Iwene Tansi, who was the first saintly figure and was beatified more than a decade ago by Pope John Paul II. President of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria, Most Rev. Dr. Augustine Akubeze, said yesterday in Benin, Edo State capital, that the process of Ogu’s sainthood was in process. The process, according to him, would start  tomorrow when the Pope’s representative presides over a ceremony at a pilgrimage site, the Vivian Ogu Missionary Animation Centre in Benin City, named after the late 14-year-old virgin. The centre is being developed at the site the teenager was shot dead after she resisted being raped by armed men, who invaded her family house and had wanted to rape her in the process in Benin City in 2009. The Pope’s representative will be joined by Catholic Bishops in Nigeria, who are attending an extraordinary National Mission Congress which opened yesterday at the Bishop Kelly Pastoral Centre in the ancient capital town. According to Rev. Fr. Ajana of the Catholic Bishop Conference of Nigeria, the Congress which ends on Saturday, is for the purpose of reflecting on the Church’s Missionary identity in Nigeria and proffer the way forward. In his homily at a Holy Mass celebrated by 21 Bishops, Archbishop Augustine Akubeze urged the Congress to also examine ways of ensuring that Christ faithful were well cared for spiritually and materially as part of preparations for the purpose of missionary work. Akubeze, who is the Archbishop of Benin, said the job of preaching was not exclusive to only Priests, the religions and those in consecrated lives but all Christians. He stated that the new mission to evangelize calls for retrospection of hearts, saying “when the message of Christ is well accepted, there will be no more wars” in families, societies, churches and among nations. Archbishop Akubeze, who spoke briefly on the life of Vivian Ogu and her heroic death in the hands of armed thieves, said she joins Fr. Tansi, whose lives are recommended by the Vatican for Christian emulation. Miss Vivian Ogu was born in Benin City to her parents, who hail from Aboh Mbaise in Imo State. She was brutally murdered on November 15, 2009 in Benin City.