The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has told the people of Kogi State that its first assignment would be to clear outstanding arrears of salaries and pensions owed to workers in the state by the All Progressives Congress (APC) government if elected on November 16. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, who made the promise when he hosted investors from state in Abuja, yesterday, said payment of salaries and pension arrears, top intervention list of the party’s governorship candidate, Engr. Musa Wada Ologbondiyan added that this would run simultaneously with job creation initiatives and direct empowerment of citizens in various income generating sectors for greater competitiveness, productivity and personal prosperity which the Yahaya Bello administration denied the people. According to him, PDP was already in discussions with captains of industries, investors, professionals and experts in various fields from Kogi State and beyond on strategies to effectively and transparently transform the state, revamp the economy and empower the people. “Our primary focus is the welfare and personal prosperity of the Kogi people. Kogi state is blessed with abundant human and material resources. It receives federal allocation in billions of naira every month, so the people of Kogi have no reason to live in poverty. “There is no excuse for non-payment of salaries and pensions. The problem is that the APC has been stealing and mismanaging our resources. As you are aware, the people are looking up to us for solution and we must not fail them. “I am happy that we have intensified discussions with professionals, investors and business people from Kogi and beyond on ways to harness and manage our resources and empower our people. “Already we have perfected a strong template that will enable us, as soon as we are elected, to swiftly pay the arrears of salaries and pension accumulated by Bello. “Kogi State is largely a civil service state and our people depend on their salaries; so payment of salaries must be a priority for any government that has the interest of the people at heart. Unfortunately, Bello has failed to deliver on this.” he said.