T he National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday said that he won’t reply the chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay, SAN in the media over series of allegations made by the latter on the crisis in the party and Edo State.  Oshiomhole, who stated this in Abuja, stressed that he would rather call him on the telephone or schedule a meeting with him and hear issues he claimed he had with him, saying that he has a high respect for Sagay Sagay had during the week accused Oshiomhole of creating more problems for the party with his aggressive attitude, adding that he would personally demand his removal as Party Chairman if Edo State, the only state controlled by the APC in the South-South, was lost to the opposition.  Sagay was quoted in an interview as saying: “I have advised Oshiomhole rather unsuccessfully to stop being combative, to stop punching and all these aggressive behavior in a leadership position. You need to stoop to conquer, you need to be restrained. “Even when people are wrong and you want to correct them, you need to show that you are not after humiliating them and that you will work with them to correct things; not to be aggressive, threatening and engaging in pugilistic method. I told him this but he ignored it. Because of his aggression, we have lost quite a number of states.”  When asked to react to Sagay’s allegations, Oshiomhole said, though he had not read what the PACAC chairman said but that even if he had read it, he won’t reply through newspapers. “All I can tell you is that, I have a lot of respect for Professor Itse Sagay. I do remember very well that he was one of those who said I should contest for President. I respect him. He’s a very consistent fellow. He believes in what he believed in and he pays the price for it. “So, I have a lot of respect for him. If he has said those things, I’m not going to reply him through the newspapers. I will find out what he said and I will find time and call him and know what the issues are, that he is not comfortable with. He is my brother and my elder statesman,” Oshiomhole said.  The APC National Chairman, who also reacted to the alleged frequent overseas trips of President Muhammadu Buhari, maintained that the President was yet to match former President Olusegun Obasanjo on overseas trips.  According to him: “Saying the President involves in frequent trips is not correct. I remember very well, there is no President in recent Nigeria’s history, since 1999 till now, that travelled out of Nigeria as much as former President Olusegun Okikiola Aremu Obasanjo did. “If you check through your newspapers and play back some of your electronic coverages, you will find where Gani Fawehinmi (of the blessed memory) took time to calculate the number of days President Obasanjo was out of Nigeria, visiting foreign countries. “He even tried to calculate the number of hours he was spending on air comparing to the number of hours he was spending on Nigeria’s soil. So, how can you, that was already an adult when Obasanjo was President suggest that Buhari travels more often than other persons. That is not correct.”