President Mohamadu Buhari yesterday promised the host communities of Oil Mining Lease (OML) 25 in Rivers State better days ahead, noting that they would no longer suffer neglect and deprivations the way they did for more than 40 years of oil extraction from their land. The President, who was represented by Senator Ita Enang, Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta, spoke during the reopening of OML 25 assets in Belema, Akuku Toru Local Government Area, Rivers State. The reopening of the oil assets followed peaceful resolution of the protracted conflict between the host communities and the assets operator, Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC, which left the OML25 occupied and shut down by the host communities since August 2017. The event also witnessed the groundbreaking for 1.5million litres potable water and 12 kilometer treated water reticulation project for Oko-Ama and Belema by the Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Mele Kyari. Buhari said that henceforth, serious development initiatives would take place in the host communities of OML 25 through partnerships with the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC and the Amnesty office. Buhari said: “We’ve been to the communities. I felt touched that they are asking for a school, hospitals in 2019 after 40 years of oil and gas being taken from their soils. I scooped the water from pond which you people drink. It is smeared with oil. “On behalf of the nation, I apologise to you. We will change for the better for you, for us all as a nation. We will not only build schools, hospitals for you, we will provide complete communities for you. “Working with state government, Niger Delta Development Commission, Amnesty, Ministry of Niger Delta Affair, we will ask to know what they are doing. “Now that I have seen what you go through, we are going to take this message to the NASS, to redirect the budget to know what they are providing for you.” He commended the host communities for their peaceful disposition and for vacating assets at the OML25 Platform and Flow station where hundreds of community protesters, had occupied and shutdown since August 2017. He said: “The whole struggle has come to conclusion. We thank you for your peaceful disposition through the struggle. We can now vacate peacefully and allow work to continue, as the issues are being addressed. You are aware that some immediate demands have already been met.” Lifting up the hand of Jackrich Jr, Enang also told the host communi-ties, “Every community who has sons as Jackrick who care this much for his people should take care of him and pray for him to remain safe, healthy and blessed to continue to move your communities forwards.” Also speaking, Belema monarch, HRM King Boudilion Ekiye Okor, Amayanabo of Belema, told the President that the OML 25 host communities insisted on active responsibilities for Belema Oil before the conflict in the communities was resolved because Tein Jackrich Jr, owner of Belema Oil is son of the soil and has made the difference with OML 55. The monarch said: “Today, I am the happiest man in Belema. BelemaOil, owned by our son is now in charge of maintaining operations. Now we know who to hold if we are disappointed. If he (Jackrich) fails us, we go to his mother and father’s house to complain, but he has given us so much confidence that we know he can’t fail. “He has proven with OML 55 which he took from Chevron that he can make the difference. The water project he provided at Kula is world class. Today, our sons and daughters can attend the best schools in the world because Tein Jackrich believe in genuine development of the host communities. “Our passionate appeal to President Buhari, NAPIMS and NNPC is that when Shell wants to divest from OML25, they must concede same to BelemaOil to take full control. Today, my people’s occupation of OML25 has ended. We will remove our things there and production can now start.” In his remarks, the chairman of the Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, Chief Edwin K. Clark, thanked stakeholders for the peaceful resolution. Clark, who was represented by his Vice Chairman, Godknows Igali, lauded the Federal Government, host communities, BelemaOil, NNPC and the Petroleum Ministry under Timipre Sylva.