Davidson Edieya is an indigene of Urhonigbe, Orhionmwon Local Government Area of Edo State. Edieya, who was called to Bar on 13th December, 2017 tells JOHN CHIKEZIE his experience, choice of career, pupillage and varied issues   Background I obtained my LL. B from Ambrose Alli University in 2016 as the Best Graduating Student with 3 distinct awards. I attended the Nigerian Law School, Yenagoa Campus, where I obtained my B. L and was called to the Nigeria Bar on 13th December, 2017. Apart from practising law, I am currently studying for my Masters degree in Environmental Law at Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma. Why law One reason I became a lawyer was because I believed my strengths were in analyzing problems and advising others. Being a lawyer can require a wide range of skills and unexpected challenges. I discovered that to illustrate the range, in just a day, a lawyer may have to study the fine print of a form to make sure all the details are correct and also advise her client about the general legal risks of embarking on a particular business strategy. I also enjoy the study of law and learning about how an argument could be made on both sides of any case. Although my journey of becoming a lawyer was faced with manifold challenges, I thank God almighty that the dream of wearing the lawyers’ robes is now a reality. What part of law interests you? Environmental law, Property law and corporate law are my major interest particularly Environmental Regulations and Litigation. My interest in Environmental law is informed by the involvement of natural resource management, the menace of pollution, Public health and Human Rights concerns. Judiciary and independence It is not an overstatement if I say that an independent Judiciary is the greatest asset of a nation. The Judiciary, by the nature of its functions and role, is the citizen’s last line of defence. I make bold to say that the country still has a long way to go to reach the haven of full judicial independence and political culture rooted in the rule of law. The undue delays of trial, executive interference, corruption, lack of federal character, to mention but a few, are some of the challenges bedeviling the Nigeria Judiciary. I humbly use this medium to call all stakeholders concerned, including but not limited to judges, lawyers, legislators, members of the Executive Council e.t.c to ensure that the sanctity of the judiciary is protected and the hope of the common man rekindled. The phrase “Judiciary is the last hope of the common man” should be observed more in obedience than breached in Nigeria. The road to experience judicial independence will be paved by commitment comprising of key steps that include support from the political branches, contributions from the judiciary itself, broad-based judicial reforms, lawyers jettisoning technicalities. Young lawyers Since I was called to the bar, I have realized that a young lawyer have so many hurdles to cross in the early stage of his legal career. Young lawyers are faced with a strong dilemma between heeding to the tenor of the Rules of Professional Conduct and Etiquettes or pay less attention to the rules in order to survive the economic realities and untold hardship melted on young lawyers by senior members of the bar, who are supposed to be mentors. Remuneration of young lawyers requires urgent attention in Nigeria. However, in actual practice, we are exposed at early age to the ways and manner to circumvent the rules of professional conduct (RPC) to the detriment of his clients. Also, we are expected not to visit a client’s house, only in exceptional circumstances. We (young lawyers) are taught to avoid conducting ourselves in a manner that is unbecoming of a lawyer, one of which is engaging in buying and selling, but due to economic constraint and recession, we engage in the act in order to make ends meet. As regards to young female lawyers, they are often referred to as endanger species. A female new wig seeking for guidance on how to go about conducting a particular case or looking for an employment easily becomes sexually vulnerable among some judges, senior lawyers and some employers. Another pertinent issue is the attitude of law enforcement agencies towards young lawyers. A new wig is taught in law school that law enforcement agents are partners, if not ministers, in the administration of practice and in the temple of justices. However, law enforcement agents tend to be naturally hostile and aggressive to lawyers particularly the new wig. They see the new wigs as a enemies, especially when the law enforcement agents are not straight forward in their dealings. My experience at the Area Command office of the Nigeria Police Force, Benin City is still very fresh in my memory. The Investigative Police Officer asked me to wait outside until he finishes recording my client’s statement. I insisted to be present on the strength of Sections 17 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Edo State, 2016 which permits a lawyer to be present during when an accused person is making a confessional statement. The situation almost degenerated, except for the intervention by the Commander. If I was appointed Attorney-General of I will advise the government of the Federation to always obey court orders because that is one of the key features of the rule of law as held by the Supreme Court in Obaseki J.S.C in Ojukwu  Vs. Lagos State Government. Ambition I will like to attain the pinnacle of an upright legal professional in Nigeria by being conferred with the distinguished rank of a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. It will also be a great privilege for me to teach the younger generation about law, either in a law faculty or the Nigerian law school.