Professor Itse Sagay is a constitutional lawyer and chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC). In this interview with EMMANUEL ONANI in Abuja, he offers perspectives on the state of the nation, freedom of speech, the electoral process, among others    You seem to have a lot of confidence in the current 9th  National Assembly as opposed to the preceding one. What difference do you think this Assembly will make from the 8th parliament? The 9th Assembly basically is very eager to be in a cordial relationship with the executive and to work together in the interest of the nation. The 8th Assembly was the real opposition. It wasn’t a question of PDP being opposition and APC as the party in power, no. They bonded together and formed a strong opposition in the National Assembly against the Buhari government throughout, and frustrated so many things,  including in areas of corruption. The bills that were sent to them to be approved were completely left undone; nothing happened. The bill on special courts is still there, the bill on proceeds of crime, the approval of nominations of critical elements in the fight against corruption,  they were either denied or delayed unreasonably. The confirmation of Magu was denied throughout the period, they never agreed to confirm him even though it was clear that he was doing tremendous work in the fight against corruption. The case of the ICPC chairman, Professor (Bolaji) Owasanoye was delayed for over a year for no reason and if you recall, the budget too. They will just laugh at the budget and then take a long break for weeks and then come back from recess. So, the decision to make our budget a January to December budget was completely defeated. And there are so many other things. And of course, you remember the way they use to pad all their budgets, hide things and hide money for projects that don’t exist, for streets and roads that are in their backyards which have no existence in reality. In one word, how would you describe the 8th Assembly? Well, I will say the 8th Assembly was hostile to the interest of Nigeria and was just interested in promoting its own personal interest in terms of material things and political matters among others. They just didn’t care about the interest of this country. Even when Saraki was accused and charged to the Code of Conduct Tribunal, virtually the whole Senate went with him. In my view, that was the senate that was hostile not only to corruption (fight), but to good governance. There is this argument in some quarters that free speech under this government was being threatened. Do you think so? Not at all. I think Nigeria is an example of a state where there is almost absolute freedom of speech in which people say whatever they like – the press, the ordinary man, will say all sorts of things and get away with it and nobody does anything about it. The level of freedom of speech we have in this country, I am not sure that even in Europe they enjoy it. I don’t know what example you can give of somebody being prosecuted or oppressed for expressing his views. There is hardly anything like that. Look at the social media it is all abuses, insults, hate speeches, and they are getting away with it. So, anybody saying that the freedom of speech in Nigeria is being threatened is definitely speaking in bad faith. There is this claim in some quarters that prior to the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had allegedly spoken of training ad-hoc staff for electronic transfer of election results to a central server. Should the public hold the electoral body to account, in the event that funds may have been allocated for the exercise, which INEC said never happened? To start with, electronic transfer (of results) was itself not legitimate under our law. Our law makes it quite clear that the present system that we have is manual. And you know, two or three times the President refused to sign anything electronic voting, electronic transfer and so on. So, there is no law. And if they had done it, the whole election would have been null and void, if they had used electronic system. That is the first issue. At that stage, the loser of the election could now have brought an action, that the whole process of transmission of results was illegal. And, that would have brought it down because there is no provision for it at all in our law. The present provision only provides for manual transfer, and it’s stated stage-by-stage. That is why I don’t understand the whole purpose of this legal action based on the existence of a server, which is an illegal entity. As far as the law is concerned, our law makes it quite clear that the present system that we have is manual. If actually INEC was given money under the budget for electronic transfer, (and) if it has not lawfully vired that money for any other purpose, then it has to account for it. The President was inaugurated for a second term a few months ago, what policy direction do you think this government should pursue to move Nigeria to the next level? Well, if you look at what they are doing now, they are consolidating on what they were working on. Look at infrastructure, you can see that all over the country, roads and bridges are been completed including the famous Niger bridge. Work is going on at a rapid rate. Ibadan –Lagos; all over the North, the same thing. You will even come to railway transport, the same thing. They got to Ibadan and from Lagos now they are on their way to the north and also in the same Lagos, they are trying to construct a modern rail line straight to the port to evacuate goods in future travel. This deliberate and well-mapped infrastructure will surely address all these problems we have of trailers blocking the roads and so on. The Police Service Commission and the Force Headquarter are currently engaged in a crisis of recruitment of 10,000 police personnel. As a constitutional lawyer, who, between the two, has the mandate to recruit? This is something I need to check because it is what somebody can get confused about as to who has the power to do what. What I know is that the Police Service Commission normally deals with policemen already in service. The commission is the one that presides over their affairs, appointment, conditions of service and so on. I am not sure who is in charge of actual recruitment. That is something one has to check. I don’t want to give you any definite answer without checking the appropriate provision in the constitution.