…render over 1,200 homeless More than 1,200 people have been rendered homeless as bandits attacked three communities in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State. Governor Abubakar Sani Bello had a few weeks ago pardoned and released about 30 bandits who had been terrorising parts of the state. “We signed a peace pact with them (bandits) and there is no better day to enforce that peace than today being World’s Peace Day, and I am pleased to inform you that since we had the understanding, there has been peace in that part of the state. “We have expended a lot of resources using military solutions but at the same time we have decided to go into dialogue. And we found out that the dialogue we engaged in, is beginning to yield positive results in some parts of the state,” the governor said then. The fresh attack came barely one month after bandits attacked several communities in the same area, killing two women a child and sacking over 5,000 people from their homes. The bandits, who reneged on the agreement reached with government, attacked Gyaramiya, Bataron Jatau and Bataron Waziri communities about 10a.m. on Wednesday. Witnesses said the armed men dispossessed members of the communities of their valuables, including foodstuffs and petroleum products. “The bandits did not kill anyone, but they threatened us to vacate our homes and leave for Allawa town in the same local government,” one of the residents said. In a telephone interview with our correspondent, the District Head of Allawa, Ibrahim Salihu, confirmed that over 1,200 people had been displaced and were currently at Allawa village, looking for shelter and food. Salihu, however, appealed to the federal and state governments to come to their aid. The Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, Mrs. Mary Noel Berje, confirmed the attacks. He said: “A Joint Military Task Force and Air Force surveillance teams have been mobilised by the government to dislodge and fish out the bandits from their hideouts.” At press time, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Mohammad Abubakar, said he was yet to receive any official report on the attacks from the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in the area. Abubakar, however, pointed out that due to the difficulty of the terrain, communication to the area was a major challenge.