Dr. Putras Kum, a cleric from Power Restoration Chapel International, South African, paid an evangelistic visit to Nigeria recently. He takes a look at the difference between the church in South Africa and Nigeria, the recent diplomatic face-off between the two countries, in this interview with TAI ANYANWU   Could you briefly tell us about your visit to Nigeria?  I am Bishop Isaac Idahosa’s son from South Africa, the only son that he loves from South Africa. I came to be part of the 30th anniversary celebration of God First Ministries (Illumination Assembly). And I am very happy to be part of it; because when it comes to an anniversary, there is celebration. Where there is celebration there is impartation and when there is impartation there is rejoicing and peoples’ lives are taken from one level of glory to another.  Bishop Idahosa is my spiritual father. We met a few years ago in South Africa. Immediately he came into my life, things changed; and I decided that I will continue to be his son; and here we are today.   How come that you are the only son he loves in South Africa?   We invited him to our church; when you invite a man of God to your church, if you are a wise Christian, before he comes you will ask God to reveal to you the man who is coming. It’s not just about people coming to preach. Even if you are following men of God on T V, if you are a wise Christian, you will ask God to reveal to you who that man of God is. And that is just what I did before he came to our church. I didn’t just wait for him to come and I see a physical man of God. I wanted the spiritual part of him to be revealed and God revealed that, he is the man I need in my life. Immediately he came, he prayed; he preached and I told my pastor that we cannot let Bishop Idahosa alone. I said this man must be our father; and that is how it came to be. He started coming; all over the country, when we here that Bishop Idahosa is coming to South Africa we must go his programmes. We became closer and closer and closest and here we are today.   How would you describe the church here and the church in South Africa?   I must say that we are all Christians. But there is a little bit of a difference between the Church in Nigeria and the church in South Africa. I can say that in Nigeria there is an intense need and intense love for God that they have picked up. That is why they are glued to God. In South Africa, I can say yeah people do love God; people do go to church but because of condition, life and so on, the church in South Africa is slightly different from the church in Nigeria. There are more churches, more people come to church, more praise and worship God here than in South Africa.   Could you let us in on how you were received on arrival to Nigeria?   Wow it was too much, it was wonderful. When I came in Bishop Idahosa’s protocol was waiting for me at the Airport. I was received, I was driven down here and protocol took me to my hotel, Oriental Hotel. It has been good, wonderful. I can say that the people of Nigeria are very welcoming. In terms of hospitality they are number one contrary to popular opinion that says when you go to Nigeria they will just do this and do that, crime left right and center. No; it is otherwise I am telling. On the contrary, at the airport the way they received me even the immigration was wonderful. You see people just say what they say; they have never been to Nigeria.   So what I can tell them is don’t talk, come to Nigeria, you will see the other side of Nigeria. Nigerians are welcoming; Nigerians love foreigners; Nigerians are lovely people; they welcome you and want you to be part of them. They are free, they talk to you and they want to know more about you. When you talk to them, they embrace you and you embrace them and they protect you seriously.   Were you not afraid to come to Nigeria considering the Xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa?   At first I had fears, but I sat down again and asked the ladies flying South African Airline. They come in here almost every day, sleep and they go the next day; and they told me there is nothing to be afraid of. They told me that all the things we read about Nigeria exist only on social media and there is nothing like that about Nigeria. The Xenophobia issue was handled at diplomatic level. Then I felt free; I came in and I was received well even by Immigration officers.  How would describe the attack on Nigerians resident in South Africa?  In fact, what happened in South Africa, I can say was an isolated incident. It is just that it has been going on for some time since 2008. But it was a group of boys who sat in their hostel and started all these things. And if you check into it, the government is working seriously to get all that resolved. The South African government sent our minister to come to your government to appologise.   Our President is working on it very seriously so I can assure you that in a matter of time all these things will be resolved. But the issue is that our people have to understand that we have to learn from foreigners or people from other countries coming to South Africa. We have to humble ourselves and learn from them. You have to ask yourself why is it that somebody from Nigeria will come in and after a year or two he is making it and you who have been there aren’t making it. Then something is wrong with you. You must humble yourself, you learn from them and ask them what is that you are doing and succeeding. If it is the way they are worshipping their God, which indeed is one factor, you don’t mind.   So you have to open your eyes, pray to our God and indeed God will open our eyes. He will open our eyes and he will bless the work of our hands. Before we know it, I am telling you, should have live in love instead of bending people and fighting people. But the only thing I saw at the airport was our exchange. You see Nigerians are professionals. They have got a way of dealing with South Africans. The way you are doing it, to an extent, I like it because when I went to change our Rand, it was I Rand to 15 naira. I was shocked; instead of 30 to 35 Rand. I saw it 15; and I said what! Then the lady started laughing. I said; why are you punishing South Africans like this? She said no,no,no cool down, you people must learn. I said ok; it is fine. We are learning and you are dealing with us in the right way.   Would you also say that Nigerians in South Africa are really problematic?  You see, you cannot paint everybody with the same brush. There are Nigerians who are problematic in South Africa, I must say. But that one we have to leave to law enforcement agencies. You cannot take the laws into your own hands. It is not only Nigerians, there are South Africans who give a lot of problems and into a lot of crime; but leave it to the law. Let the law take its course, don’t bend people, don’t fight people, immediately you pick-up or identify a problem you report.   It’s not about Nigerians there is crime everywhere. See the issues of drug, 419 most times come from Nigerians but there are also Nigerians who are senior medical doctors, who are professionals, who are serious businessmen, who in fact, if they take away their money from South African system it will disturb the economy. There are very good number of hardworking and humble Nigerians in South Africa, so you cannot paint everybody with the same brush.   No No no; in as much as if you go somewhere else you find South Africans being arrested in Brazil, South Africans are arrested in China. It doesn’t mean all South Africans are bad. No no.  If you do crime let the law enforcement agents deal with you. Leave the law to police officers, that’s it. All I am saying is that all the things they are saying about Nigerian is not true, but if you come to Nigeria and do crime Nigeria will also arrest you. It is just about respecting the rules of the country. You just have to respect the rules of the country. That makes you a better citizen of the country; if you are a foreigner, a good and better foreigner.