Police in Ogun State have arrested a 56-year-old quack doctor, Salahudeen Jamiu, for allegedly carrying out a failed abortion on a housewife, Kehinde Olakitan. The abortion, the police said, led to Olakitan’s death. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident yesterday, said it occurred at Igberen area of Sango-Ota. He said the suspect, who operates Mojisola Maternity Clinic, was arrested following a report by the husband of the deceased at the Onipanu Division. According to him, the body of the housewife, a mother of four, was dumped in the frontage of a house close to her residence. Oyeyemi added that the police nabbed the suspect last Thursday after detectives launched a manhunt for him. He said: “The suspect was arrested following a report by the husband of the deceased who reported at Onipanu Division that he received a call from one Dupe Odebunmi, who claimed to be a nurse that his wife, Kehinde Olakitan, was sick and on admission at Mojisola Maternity Clinic belonging to the suspect. “He stated further that on getting to the clinic, he found nobody there, but on his way back home, he discovered the corpse of his wife in front of a building close to his house. “Upon the report, the DPO, Onipanu Division, SP Magdalene Adeniji, detailed her detectives to launch a serious manhunt for the operator of the maternity centre. “On interrogation, the suspect admitted carrying out an abortion on the deceased who was brought to him by her friend by name, Dupe Odebunmi, and that the deceased, a mother of four, died in the process. “He confessed further that it was out of fear that made him dumped her corpse in the frontage of a house close to the woman’s residence.” The PPRO added that the remains of the deceased had been deposited at the mortuary of the General Hospital, Ota for autopsy. He said the state Commissioner of Police, Bashir Makama, had ordered the transfer of the suspect to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for proper investigation and prosecution. Oyeyemi quoted the police boss as appealing to members of the public to always patronise qualified health providers whenever the need arose instead of seeking medical assistance from quacks and unqualified practitioners.