 P resident Muhammadu Buhari has ordered the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to make special funds available for the textile industry. He also directed the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) to facilitate the training and retraining of textile workers in the country. Buhari gave the order yesterday in Abuja, while declaring open the 31st Annual National Educational Conference of the National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN). While noting that the training would help to sustain an earlier Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the CBN on behalf of the Federal Government with the textile workers, he said that the MoU signed in line with the Executive Order 003 to encourage local content procurement was already yielding positive results. President Buhari, who was represented by the Registrar, Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), Prof. Josiah Ajiboye, further revealed that all uniform agencies were already keying into the initiative to ensure they patronise local industries for their uniforms. His words: “The existing 40,000 garments and textile workers must be trained and retrained. I will use this opportunity to call on the CBN to collaborate with your union and the ITF to come in and encourage the union to provide funds to train and retrain the textile workforce in Nigeria. “In recent time, the CBN has taken a number of commendable efforts to encourage patronage of local fabrics towards driving economic policy. After series of engagements, the CBN initiated the signing of an unprecedented MoU between the Service Chiefs, Chief Executives of uniform services and textile garment manufacturers on enforcement of Executive Order 003 on support of local content in procurement, and I am glad to report to you that this is already yielding positive fruits.” General Secretary, NUTGTWN, Mr. Issa Aremu, who commended the Federal Government for ordering closure of the borders, said it has helped to boost productivity in the textile and garment industry, as smuggling of goods into the country, especially those produced locally, have been curbed. Aremu, who stressed the need for the ITF to increase its intervention on workers’ training and skills development in a world where future of work was threatened by technology, noted that the association has signed 46 various national agreements for development.