The approval of a N50 billion bond for the Ondo State governor and President Muhammadu Buhari’s N10 billion repayment request for Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, are generating discussions in the polity. ONYEKACHI EZE x-rays the likely implications of such funds on election year   P erhaps, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and his Kogi State counterpart, Yahaya Bello may not be the first to seek Federal Government bond or refund for federal projects executed in their states, but for the controversy is the timing. Ondo State will being going to the polls mid-2020 and Akeredolu might be seeking a reelection. He told Ondo State House of Assembly that he needed N50 billion bond to complete ongoing infrastructure projects in the state.  And for Kogi State, the election is on November 16 this year and Bello has already secured the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to seek reelection. President Muhammadu Buhari’s who is the one making the request on his behalf, told the National Assembly that he needed the sum of N10 billion to offset the cost of projects executed by Kogi State on behalf of the Federal Government.  “Take note also that the said expenditure was authorised by the Federal Government which other 23 states of the federation have also been refunded,” Buhari said in a letter read by the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawal. A number of state governors have obtained bonds in the past, while until recently, the Federal Government had refunded state governors that undertook the rehabilitation of federal projects in their domains. And as President Buhari had noted, about 23 states have so far been refunded. But now, the Federal Government has said no more refunds to state governors who rehabilitated federal roads in their states. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola told the House of Representatives on abandoned Federal Government Projects (Works) from 1999 till date, that it was due to the humongous amounts being claimed by the governors after repairing federal roads in their states.   “The states submitted a bill of almost a trillion naira when President Buhari was elected. He asked us to work out what was their entitlement…,” Fashola explained, disclosing that about N44 billion was certified by the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) to be refunded to the states.  According to him, President Buhari agreed to refund the money but with a caveat to stop rehabilitating federal roads in their domains. “Tell them not to fix my roads again if they are going to claim compensation. If you want to fix it and not ask for compensation, send me what you want to do.  “But if you want compensation, go and mind your business while I mind my business because I have inherited enough debts!” he added. The state of federal roads across the country does not reflect intervention of any type. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the N10 billion request by President Buhari is to pay for “phantom projects” because there was no federal project executed by Governor Bello for which Buhari is seeking a refund. The party accused the president of misleading the National Assembly. Said the PDP: “It is scandalous that the Buhari presidency, with its claims of transparency and integrity, would seek to mislead the National Assembly by asserting that the fund is for projects done by the state government on behalf of the Federal Government, when in reality no one can point to any such project executed by Governor Yahaya Bello in the last four years. “Such action by Mr. President further confirms that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is directly in league with Governor Yahaya Bello to strangulate the people of Kogi State. “If the Buhari presidency means well for Kogi State, it should reword its request and put the interest of the masses ahead of all selfish and  parochial political considerations, particularly as the state approaches a critical election in which the people have made up their minds to vote out Governor Yahaya Bello. “Mr. President cannot claim to be unaware of the critical situation of workers in Kogi State. He cannot claim to be unaware that workers in Kogi State are being owed, in some cases up to 36 months, and that retirees and seniors are dying over non payments of their pensions after giving the best of their lives in public service. “The PDP therefore urges President Buhari to resist attempts by his handlers and Governor Bello to drag his presidency into this shameful attempt to steal fund that ought to go to the suffering masses in Kogi State.” This is the same way the N50 billion bond approved by the Ondo State House of Assembly for Governor Akeredolu is generating controversies. The state chapter of PDP said part of the fund would go into the governor’s second term project. Zadok Akintoye, the party’s Director of Media and Publicity, also said the bond would further plunge the state into huge debt. “While we are well aware that states may access loans from the capital market to finance projects that may not be covered by available resources, our concern is that our dear Ondo State is doing so at a time when its financial inflows from Federal Allocation, Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and other earnings from past investments of the state, are at a fairly steady level. “Considering our present domestic debt profile of about N52 billion (as at 2018) and an external debt profile of a out $50 million, it is worrisome to see that the Akeredolu-led government   is resorting to further borrowing rather than reducing the debt per revenue burden on the state. “We also note the quick passage of the bill by the state House of Assembly authorising the governor to access this loan and would like to draw the attention of this honorable members vested with the mandate of the people to act, speak and defend the interest of our people, to the failure of the executive arm of government to publicly present a detailed and audited account of funds received and spent on the behalf of the people since this government came into being,” PDP demanded.  The state government, however, insisted that the bond would be for the completion of ongoing infrastructure projects and to fund new ones to be initiated by the administration. The state Commissioner for Information, Donald Ojogo, said the revenue of the state has dwindled. “There was a time some states were collecting N15 to 20 billion and I know of course at a point that this state collected N13 billion because there was money. FAAC (Federal Account Allocation Committee) at a point distributed close to N900 billion but now what is distributed?  “I don’t think this government has received up to N6 billion in a single month from FAAC since it came on board. It is as low as N4 billion in some cases which mainly went into payment of workers’ salaries including seven months arrears out of which six months had been paid.   “Do we now complain that because we are paying salaries we will not construct roads, upgrade our hospitals and desirable structures will not be put in place?” he asked. Ojogo explained that rather than obtaining bank loans, a bond is the best way out because of the high interest rate. “The best way to fund a project is only through the bonds because the maximum interest rate is between 14 and 16 per cent.  But if you go to the bank, it will attract 19 and in some cases 20, 21 per cent. So, it is of no burden to the state. This bond is targeted at specific projects. “It will be highly unfortunate if with the zeal that the contractors have been deploying themselves to the state, lack of funds hinders what has been put in place,” Ojogo said. The fears being expressed is that such fund would be used for vote buying during election. Politicians no longer snatch ballot boxes because of the futility of the exercise. The easiest way now is voter inducement. Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has identified vote buying as the greatest problem affecting the nation’s electoral process. This he said, was perpetrated by politicians through various methods, including sandwiching naria notes between two slices of bread. “When I talk about sandwich we are not talking of bread but ways politicians induce voters by sandwiching naira notes in two slices of bread. I am talking of sandwich not as food but as tool used by politicians for voting exercise,” he said. Other forms this is perpetrated, according to Prof. Yakubu include branded food items, kitchen utensils, automobiles, clothing, and toiletries. “Vote buying is not acceptable; it must never be allowed to define our elections. It is illegal and morally wrong. It denies citizens quality representation and gives us bad name internationally.” This is the danger of allowing politicians to have access to so much funds on election year. Incidentally, President Buhari who refused to release bailout fund accruing to Kogi State in 2015 because it was close to election period is the one requesting for N10 billion from National Assembly for an APC government in the same state barely a month to an election.