 F ormer President Goodluck Jonathan, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila have all felicitated with former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), on his 85th birthday. In his goodwill message to the elder statesman on Saturday, Dr Jonathan described General Gowon as a brave leader who served his country with honour, pride and love. According to him, the passion and patriotism of the octogenarian have continued to grow as he contributes to the nation’s growth and development.   The former President wished the former Head of State more strength and peaceful years. Similarly, former Vice President and presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has also felicitated with General Gowon. He also prayed that God grants the elder statesman more years to continue to serve his country. On his part, Governor Oyetola described the former leader as a patriot and commended him for his steadfastness in displaying an uncommon high sense of commitment to achieving a united Nigeria.   In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan on Saturday, Oyetola, noted that most of Gowon’s legacies were enduring and had direct impact on the lives of young Nigerians. The governor said: “But for the NYSC scheme introduced by the Gowon’s administration, I probably would never have been to a town called Postikum in present day Yobe State.   “I am proud to say that I taught at the Staff Training Centre during my one-year mandatory youth service. And it is an experience I relish with pride. “Your Excellency sir, you have remained committed to the peace, unity and progress of Nigeria. Your recent visit to our dear state bears further testament to that. We will forever remain grateful to you. Meanwhile, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has described Gowon, as a symbol of national unity.   Gbajabiamila eulogised Gowon’s love for Nigeria and his belief in the oneness of the country. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, Gbajabiamila said it is to the credit of Gowon that the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), which brings Nigerians together, came to being in 1973.   “On this day, I join millions of Nigerians, and friends of Nigeria, to celebrate this icon and symbol of national unity as he marks 85 years on earth. “In the years since he retired from active service, Gen Gowon has worked across the country to see to the establishment of peace and abiding prosperity and it is this work that will long be remembered as his greatest legacy. “Nigerians will not forget in a hurry that the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), which worked to bring Nigerians together at a critical time in our history, is the brainchild of this great Nigerian. Indeed, the history of our country will not be complete without a mention of Gowon. “On this occasion of his 85th birthday, I join fellow Nigerians in offering special prayers to Allah to grant General Gowon continuous good health, protection and guidance.” The Speaker, Plateau State House of Assembly, Mr Abok Ayuba, has also congratulated Gen. Gowon. In a congratulatory message issued by his Director of Press, Mr Bulus Atang, on Saturday in Jos, the speaker described Gowon as a “rare gem”.