The 2019 World Cancer Day turned out an opportunity for Nigeria to highlight the scourge of cancer and what could be done to save thousands of women who needlessly lose their lives  from breast cancer every year. DEBORAH OCHENI reports  The Federal Ministry of Health, working with Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development and MedicAid Cancer Foundation are intensifying campaign to make free cancer screening services available and increase awareness towards importance of early detection of cancer. For two days, the National Hospital,  Abuja,  was a beehive of activities as a lot of women trooped there to undergo free  breast cancer screening. It was organised by the Federal Ministry of Health,  Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development and  MedicAid Cancer Foundation, as  part of activities  commemorating this year’s World Cancer Day. The exercise was designed   to make free cancer screening services available and increase awareness on  the  importance of early detection of cancer. Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Paulline Tallen,  who was part of the celebration said that the aim of commemorating the day  was to create awareness and sensitize the populace to help in fighting this deadly disease  in Nigeria. The theme for this year’s celebration  is ” I am and I  will”  while the ultimate goal is to  ensure a significant  reduction in the number of cancer patients by 2020. According to Tallen, women have the right to enjoy  the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health  that could enhance their well-being and ability to participate in all areas of public and private life. She noted that Nigeria alone contributes  about  15%  of the estimated 681,000 new cases of cancer that occur  in Africa, adding that there are more than 100,000 new cases yearly with high fatality ratio. “The most dangerous cause of premature mortality among women apart from maternal death is breast and cervical cancers, making both cancers a major health problem for women and the nation in general.” She lamented that women sometimes accept ill health as their lot in life, often ignoring painful and unbearable symptoms because in their culture, a woman is expected to endure without complaining or because taboos and myths have led them to belief that the health problems emanate from some sort of reproachable behaviour on their part. The minister stressed the need to track efforts, measures and policies with a view to identifying gaps and recommend appropriate strategies. She said that it was  important to address cancer problem through a multi-sectoral approach to improve reproductive and other health issues as contained in the National Gender Policy (NGP). Minister of Health,  Dr Osagie Ehanire, said that there is an estimated 102,000 new cases of cancer  in Nigeria every year.  Of these new cases, he said,   breast and cervical cancer account for more than 50%. Specifically, cervical cancer is responsible for the incidence of about 27.2/100,000 and an estimate of about 14,943 cases diagnosed annually with late presentation at health facilities causing death of about 8,000 women annually in Nigeria. “Breast cancer is the second most common cancer in the world with an estimated 1.67 million new cases diagnosed in 2012 (25% of all cancers) while cervical cancer is the fourth with an estimated 528,000 new cases in 2012. Of this value, a greater percentage occur in less developed countries like ours,” he said. Ehanire said the aim of celebrating the World Cancer Day was to create  awareness on breast cancer, promote prevention, early health seeking behaviour and better prognosis/outcome where treatment is required.  Beyond the talks on health education, he said,  the women would  undergo examination and some will be screened further depending on the findings. According to the minister, the poor statistics was  largely due to   lack of awareness,  late presentation, poor health seeking behaviour, financial constraints, religious/traditional beliefs, inadequate experts to manage the disease and insufficient/inadequately equipped cancer managing centres. To reverse the trend, he said, government is responding headlong to the challenge of this menace. Among other measures, the Nigeria National Cancer Control Plan  2018 -2022 was developed and launched in 2018 to guide all cancer activities in  Nigeria. In addition, the National Strategic Plan for Prevention and Control of Cervical Cancer (2017 -2021) has been launched to regulate cervical cancer management  and seven (7) Federal Teaching Hospitals have been designated Oncology Centres and  are being upgraded with state-of-the-art equipment/machines such as  brachytherapy, CT scan, Simulators etc,  to manage all types cancers. These centres are located at the Usman Dan  Fodio University Teaching Hospital (UDTH), Sokoto;  Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Zaria; National Hospital, Abuja; University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital  (UNTH), Enugu; University of Benin Teaching Hospital ( UBTH),  Benin;  University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan and  Lagos University Teaching Hospital(LUTH), Lagos. Founder, MedicAid Cancer Foundation,  Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu, said cancer was a very complicated and expensive disease to treat, stressing the need for more screening centres and support to women in order to tackle the scourge. Similarly, the Chief Medical Director of the National Hospital, Dr. Jeff Momoh, said early detection was the key to cancer control, regretting that most people visit hospitals too late and that may lead to death. “The purpose of cancer awareness is to encourage people to go for regular screening to enable early detection and treatment. Once you are 35 and above, you should endeavour to visit the hospital at least once a year to get tested,” he urged. Sadiat Haruna, one of the women that came for the free screening, commended the efforts of the organizers  and urged  that such programmes should be  held on monthly basis, so that those who can’t afford the financial implication of the screening on their own  would be able to know their health status and take appropriate  action before it was too late.