A head the Nov. 16 governorship elections in Bayelsa, the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) have re-enacted rivalry in ‘war of words’ as they canvass for votes. Senator Douye Diri, PDP candidate had on Tuesday raised alarm, when he met with United Kingdom and U.S. officials on advocacy for peaceful polls in Bayelsa, that the rival APC was not ready for peaceful polls but to deploy violence. The APC in a reaction accused the PDP in Bayelsa of trying to foster panic in the state to prepare the grounds for a state government-sponsored violence ahead of the Nov. 16 governorship election. The party’s Publicity Secretary and Secretary, Mr Doifie Buokoribo, stated this on Thursday in Yenagoa in reaction to allegations of poll rigging and violence by the Bayelsa PDP Chairman, Mr Moses Cleopas. APC also accused Gov. Seriake Dickson and his party of engaging in “a dress rehearsal for their own usual electoral violence and polls robbery”. APC described the allegations by PDP as “the ranting of a panic-stricken party rocked by greed and fear of failure owing to its own poor performance.” “It is clear to the people of Bayelsa and, indeed, Nigeria that the Peoples Democratic Party in the state is in a terrible panic mood. “Raising false alarm is only a way of managing their anxiety. “False accusation and panic-mongering have been their signature election eve dress rehearsal for violence and electoral manipulation. “Ahead of Nov. 16, PDP in the state is engaged in another full-scale practice before the launch of their terror assault on our electoral democracy. “The party seems even more desperate this time. “Hit by a wave of defections and imminent consequence of its poor performance, PDP in Bayelsa is nervous. And it has entered a persecution complex mode. “But, unfortunately for them, their strategy has become an old joke to Bayelsans. “Let us reiterate that APC is not distracted by PDP’s antics ahead of the governorship election. We remain focused. “We are on the ballot to win. The mood of Bayelsa currently accords with our message. And we will win.” APC stated. Meanwhile, the PDP state chairman said that the party was not under any threats from the opposition All Progressives Congress as a result of a few politicians who defected to the opposition. Cleopas reassured the Bayelsa citizenry that the household of the PDP was stronger and more united as shown by the massive crowd of party supporters that have been attending its rallies across the state, in a statement on Thursday. The PDP State Chairman said that all those who defected were those who were readmitted into the party with the former Managing Director òf the Niger Delta Development Commission, Chief Timi Alaibe, in November last year. He said that that Bayelsans and Nigerians would readily observe that only a few passive members of the party and opposition politicians mobilized by Alaibe for the purpose of his election defected from the party. According to him, the supporters of Alaibe whose original motive was to support him under the platform of the ADC and who were readmitted with him into the PDP in November are the ones leaving for their party. Cleopas who urged the members of the PDP to ignore the stories of defections within the party said that only those members of the APC who were defeated by the PDP in 2015 elections defected to their base to await a more crushing defeat. He listed the politicians to include Chief Peremobowei Ebebi, Prof Seiyefa Brisibe, who was Alaibe’s Campaign Director General, now alternate DG in APC, Chief Nimi Amange, APC Senatorial Candidate , Hon. Enegesi, Mike Ogiasa, Beinmo Spiff, and Hon. Tiwei, Orunimighe, a former State Chairman òf the APC who came with Alaibe. He said, “The good people of Bayelsa State should ignore the orchestrated report of defections in the PDP. The fact is that Chief Timi Alaibe mobilized some passive members of the party and opposition elements to pursue his gubernatorial agenda. These are the people who are defecting. “Alaibe’s supporters whose original objective was to support him on the platform of the ADC came to fight within the party and are the purported party leaders who are leaving. They all came with him from the APC in November. “The PDP is stronger, more united and vibrant and as far as we are concerned, victory is a certainty in this election.”