  Pa Abayomi Zacheus, aka Yankee Records, is a popular record dealer based in Ado Ekiti, capital city of Ekiti State. In this interview, the 71 – year old man, based on his experience in the business for over 5 decades spoke with ADEWUMI ADEMIJU on state of recording business now, compared to what was obtained in the past   What makes selling records so lucrative and exciting that you have done it for 50 years?  I just love music. During Christmas i always rent music engine to play music before I started. Originally, I am a watch and bicycle repairer, as far back as 1968. Indigenous people like Papa Abiara and his rival popularly known then as “Kilo fa mess” who were in music business in Ekiti then inspired me, so I developed a sustained interest.  Looking back, which notable Nigerian leaders have you had an encounter with perhaps based on stopping by to buy or express their love for any musician?  Among the leaders I can vividly remember now that I have had encounter with are Governors Ayodele Fayose and Kayode Fayemi. They do patronise me.   Which notables events come to mind if you look back to the 5 decades you have been selling records?  At a time I had set back in the business. Around 1998, I abandoned the business and travelled to the North in Kaduna State to engage in commercial driving, but no improvement, I came back home to continue with the record business .  Based on your interactions with customers over the years, which musician(s) is most loved by Ekiti people and why?  In Ekiti, they love musicians like late Ajoyemi, Ishola Adepoju, then later Elemure Ogunyemi and Dele Maltina. Ekiti love those musicians because they sang in real Ekiti dialects .  People still buy their records up till date.  Of the notable musicians in Yorubaland including those from Ekiti/Ondo, have you had encounter with any?  I have had encounter with late Orlando Owoh. Indigenous musicians in Ekiti do come to visit me. I am like a father to them.  They sing my praise me in their records.  Is any of your children showing the willingness to follow in your footsteps?  There are some of them who have interest, but they haven’t started on their own ,they have acquired the experience, I do send them outside the state to buy goods for me.  How did you become a records seller?  I said earlier I have interest in music. The genuine interest for music pushed me to recording business.   Have you had to change location at any time or due to any reason?  From the outset I have been at Old Garage, in Ado Ekiti. I have never had any cause to change my location. I have ever been in Old Garage in Ado Ekiti.  Either for good or bad, has any socio-political and economic event left an impact on your trade through the years?  There was a time I needed Plasma TV. I didn’t have. I informed Governor Kayode Fayemi during his first term and surprisingly his deputy then Professor Modupe Adelabu bought the plasma and brought it to my shop at Old Garage.  That is what is still in my shop till now.  Compared to the booming period of the 80s and 90s, how would you assess this period of hip hop compared to the era of Sunny Ade, Kollington Ayinla, Ebenezer Obey and others?   During the time, records of Ebenezer Obey and King Sunny Ade were selling fast and even up till now. Music that time is better than now.  The musicians then sing didactic songs and that’s why they are still evergreen. Many old people nowadays do not listen to hip-hop they take it as frivolous.  If you can still recollect, who did the people of Ekiti choose to align with during the era of feuds between Ayinla Omowura and Haruna Ishola and also during that of Sikiru Ayinde Barrister and Kollington Ayinla?  In Ekiti State, they love Apala songs but unfortunately, Ayinla Omowura died when his stars were booming in the state. In the case of Fuji music then, Ekiti loves Kollington Ayinla, they consider his music more entertaining than the other.  Is there anything you wish government could do for you or your peers in the business?  We would be glad if the government in Ekiti State can help us to establish recording studio in the state to save us from taking our recording outside.  It will save us from traveling to Lagos or Ibadan all the time.  Apart from helping recording business in the state, such esthablishmen will create jobs in a way and also help youth talent discovery for possible guide and nurture.  How did the relocation of major record label in the 80s and 90s affect your trade?  During that time, they gave out records to us to sell and later pay back ,but now, they are based in their different states. I do go or send people to buy records for me from any of them.  