Researchers in India said increased consumption of dietary fiber, found primarily in vegetables, fruits, legumes, and whole grains, has been found to have many health benefits including reducing the risks of  hypertension and type 2 diabetes. The findings of this new study have been presented at the American College of Cardiology (ACC) Middle East Conference 2019. Dietary fiber, also dubbed as roughage or bulk, constitutes parts of plant foods the body can’t digest or absorb; hence, it just passes through the alimentary canal of the digestive system. According to the researchers, to reach the recommended dietary fiber (RDF) intake guidelines of 40 g/2000kcla, one should aim to eat at least five portions of fruits and vegetables per day. Eating foods that are high in whole grains, starchy carbohydrates, and plant-based foods are important to ensure the human body has ample dietary fiber, which has been linked to a lower risk of a multitude of diseases. Hypertension or high blood pressure  is a condition that may lead to many complications, including cardiovascular disease, heart attack, kidney disease, and even stroke. Similarly, type 2 diabetes may also lead to other complications, including cardiovascular disease, neuropathy, kidney disease, and vision loss, among others. Reducing the risk for both conditions is essential, the ‘News Medical Life Sciences’ reported. Previous studies have shown that dietary fiber, particularly whole grains and cereal, could help lower the risk of many cardiometabolic diseases such as obesity, insulin resistance, and cardiovascular disease. In some cases, it also reduced the chance of acquiring colorectal cancer and is associated with lower cholesterol levels. In the current study, the research team at the Care Well Heart and Super Specialty Hospital in India explored the connection between a high-fiber diet and cardiovascular risk factors. In the study, the patients had type 2 diabetes and an average calorie intake of 1,200 to 1,500 kcal, which means their RDA for fiber should be around 24 to 30 g. The team followed 200 participants, taking note of their fiber intake at baseline at three months and six months. They also gave the patients diet prescriptions, including a list of food groups with portion sizes. With the help of licensed dieticians, they provided counseling sessions to ascertain that the participants understood the information. However, they found that people who consumed a high-fiber diet had a substantial enhancement in many cardiovascular risk factors. Specifically, there was a 15 per cent decrease in the systolic blood pressure, nine per cent decrease in serum cholesterol, 23 per cent decrease in triglycerides, and 28 per cent decrease in fasting glucose.