Nigeria faces its fair share of the drill as the usual end-of-the-year debacle rocks global oil industry. Adeola Yusuf reports  For Nigeria, the oil industry was, last week, greeted by a mixed grill. First, the Federal Government on Thursday signed multi-million dollar memorandum of understanding on oil production, trading and refining with Russian oil company, Lukoil. And the second was the bearish sale that rocked the country’s grade at the global market. Standing in-between these two opposing experiences for Nigeria is the renewed efforts by government to assure Nigerians that the last quarter of 2019 would be spared the yearly ritual of fuel scarcity. December oil sale projection tumbles The projection for the Forcados and Qua Iboe, two major crude oil streams from Nigeria, has tumbled with Forcados alone losing 186,000 barrels in December loading. This development, a schedule for December loading sighted, came just as the Bonny Light, another crude grade from the country, was still conspicuously missing. Forcados will load nine cargoes at a daily rate of 257,000 barrels, down from 263,000 bpd in November, the schedule reported by Reuters read. Other loading programmes emerged including Escravos with six cargoes, Agbami four, Amenam three cargoes and Yoho with one in December. “Nigerian December loading programmes began to emerge last Monday but activities remained muted as key grades like Bonny Light were still missing,” the report by Reuters added. Vitol, it continued, offered a prompt cargo of Forcados in the window at dated Brent plus $5.00 on a delivered basis during November 4 to 5, down 40 cents a barrel. From Russia with love Lukoil, which revealed the signing of MoU with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), noted that the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, signed the document on behalf of Nigeria during a visit to the Russian city of Sochi at the Russia-Africa Summit. Hunt for investors Basking in the euphoria of issues before it, the Federal Government heightened hunt for investors across the globe for funding of major oil installations in the country including the $12 billion Trans Sahara Gas Pipeline (TSGP). The TSGP, launched in 1970s, is to transport gas from Nigeria through Algeria to Spain. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, who gave the hint about the funding challenge for the major international gas pipeline, maintained, according to a document, that President Muhammadu Buhari was scheduled to visit Saudi Arabia aside Russia to, among other things, search for investment. Sylva, the document of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) read, said that he would accompany the president – who also serves as the senior oil minister – on the planned visit to Saudi Arabia. “These foreign visits will include discussions on the AKK plan,” he said. Echoes from the past Nigerians have, over the years, suffered fuel scarcity during the last quarter of the year and this bitter experience has been the determinant of the nature of relationship that has existed between the government and the populace. Sylva, as it later showed, is not unaware of these daunting task and he had been heard to have inaugurated a programme with the promise to wet the country with refined products during this last quarter and beyond. Sylva had also on October 15 held a meeting with the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission’s (ICRC) Director General, Chidi Izuwah, on the issue. The primary area for such co-operation would be on gas pipeline construction. $12bn gas pipeline project The $12 billion TSGP, expected to help Nigeria achieve zero gas flaring by 2020, remains an illusion, 17 years after it was conceived. The project should have been completed last year. Nigeria signed a treaty with Niger and Algeria in 2009 to build the pipeline, which should begin from Calabar and pass through Kano to the border. The estimated length is about 4,400 km, with over 1,037 km in Nigeria, 853 km in Niger, 2,310 km in Algeria, and 220 km connecting Algeria to Spain. What to know? In 2013, the Federal Government approved a budget of $400 million for commencement of the project. But some national and international companies that showed interest, including Total and Gazprom, grew pessimistic on security along the pipeline route. They also worried about increasing costs. The idea of the trans-Saharan pipeline was first proposed in the 1970s. On 14, January 2002, NNPC and Algerian national oil and gas company, Sonatrach, signed the memorandum of understanding for preparations of the project. In June 2005, NNPC and Sonatrach signed a contract with Penspen Limited for a feasibility study of the project. The feasibility study was completed in September 2006, and it found the pipeline to be technically and economically feasible and reliable. On the meeting on February 20, 2009, NNPC and Sonatrach agreed to proceed with the draft MoU among three governments and the joint venture agreement. The inter-governmental agreement on the pipeline was signed by energy ministers of Nigeria, Niger and Algeria on July 3, 2009 in Abuja. Safety concerns about the operations have been heightened due to the Aménas hostage crisis of 2013. Nigeria, Niger and Algeria are among the least secure areas in the region because of various active terrorist movements that destabilise them. Dearth of funding and its effects Mèanwhile, the delay in taking the final investment decision on Olokola Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), Brass LNG and the Nigeria LNG Train 7 project hindered commitment by financiers. The investors are aware that Nigeria is currently facing the challenge of meeting its gas obligation to neighbouring African countries through the West Africa Gas Pipeline Company, due to insecurity in the Niger Delta. The Chief Infrastructure Officer, ICRC, Adamu Umar, confirmed that the project was yet to move beyond the first stage. According to him, the promoters are in charge of the situation, stressing that all necessary approvals have been granted. The investors, according to him, are consortiums of Nigerian and Chinese companies. But an associate researcher at the Africa and Energy Programmes of the French Institute of International Relations (IFRI), Benjamin Auge, is of the view that the project could remain a dream for much longer. He said: “On analysis of all the elements of the route and the geopolitical realities, it appears that there are more reasons to believe that the pipeline will not be constructed in the near future. “On topography, there would certainly be a few difficulties that would weigh down on the cost of the project. An example is the Hoggar Mountains. But this would not be impossible for specialised companies. A study of the solutions proposed by the developers confronted by this sort of obstacles should wait until a final choice is made on the route. Way to go The minister enumerated the ministry’s deliverables he would want the NNPC and other departments and agencies under his watch to emulate. The priority areas the minister hopes to focus his attention on include reduction of Federal Government’s equity stakes in the six joint ventures to 40 per cent and curbing petroleum products cross border leakages. Other priorities include completion of gas flares commercialization, increasing crude oil production to three million barrels per day and effecting the reduction in the cost of crude oil production by at least five per cent. Currently, the NNPC holds about 60 per cent equity in all the joint venture operating agreements in the oil and gas industry, except the one operated with the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), where it controls 55 per cent stake. The other joint venture operations include the ones operated with Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited, Chevron Nigeria Limited, Nigerian Agip Oil Company, Total Exploration And Production (E&P) Nigeria Limited, and Seplat Petroleum Development Company. The NNPC said in a document that other priority areas identified by the Minister included an aggressive promotion of the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and the promotion of inland basin exploration activities by the NNPC. The promotion of deep offshore exploration activities; increased collaboration with the private sector to aggressively increase domestic refining capacity, and working to support Mr. President in his determination to achieve his target of raising millions of Nigerians out of poverty via job creation, are also key to the minister, the document noted. The minister, the document added, told heads of the agencies that at end of the retreat they would be required to collectively sign an undertaking to deliver on the set tasks and targets. The minister also challenged the officials to ensure they execute the mandate with all the seriousness it deserves. Last lie This last quarter is the first litmus test for Sylva as a Minister of State for Petroleum and his ability to overcome many issues, like fuel scarcity, that are associated with end of the year, would go a long way in determining how his tenure will end.