Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Godwin Emefiele, has said that the Apex Bank in collaboration with the Bankers’ Committee requested for the Federal and Lagos State governments approval to take over the National Theatre because they believe that the edifice is too important to the nation to be allowed to go to waste. The CBN Governor, who along with the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Deputy Governor Lagos, Obafemi Hamzat, the Chairman, Body of Bank CEOs, Mr. Herbert Wigwe and other top government officials in the state, paid an assessment visit to the National Theatre in Lagos Saturday,   said that in two years’ time the Theatre would have been so transformed that it could be able to rival the best convention centres in the world. On Monday, Emefiele had announced that the CBN and the Bankers’ Committee had received approval from President Muhammadu Buhari and the Lagos State government to take over the National Theatre and transform it into a creative industry park as part of their Creative Industry Financing Initiative (CIFI). The scheme is aimed at enabling Nigerians, especially youths, in the movie, fashion, ICT and music industries, access loans at single digit interest rates. Briefing journalists at the end of the assessment visit, the CBN Governor said: “About three years ago we were in Peru and I can tell you that if this is developed I can tell you this asset will be 10 times the kind of convention centre that we saw in Peru and that is the reason we said that the youth need a chance. We need to give the youths of this country a chance. That is why under our Creative Industry Financing Initiative we said, for those who want to so fashion, those who are into movies, IT, and entertainment industry, we will build a hub around this Arts Theatre edifice to accommodate them so that they can develop their God given gifts.” Continuing, he said: “I can imagine what this place will look like in another two years; it will boost the tourism potential of Lagos State and Nigeria. Nigerians go out to different seminars. I must say this bluntly: there was a time within three months Nigerian business men were going to South Africa to attend almost four seminars because they are saying Nigeria does not have a convention centre. This place can stand any world class convention centre you can think off.” He dispelled fears in some quarters that the takeover of the Theatre will lead to the displacement or eviction of some groups. “There is no need for anybody to be afraid that they are going to be expelled. We will develop it for them to use and use for the good of their businesses and for their families. But the important thing is that with an asset of this nature, I think our future will not forgive us, our generations unborn will not forgive us if we allow this go to waste. That is the reason we are here today,” he said. Also speaking at the briefing, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, thanked President Buhari for granting permission for the planned transformation of the National Theatre by the CBN and the banks. He said: “What we have come to see is for us to be able to give the go ahead working with all of the other stakeholders and our development partners, which is led by no other person than the governor of the central bank himself, who are putting investments together to be able to do a first of its type entertainment, fashion, music, technology, movies and an all-around creative hub.” In his remarks, CEO Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, reiterated that the project is in line with the Federal Government’s vision of lifting 100 million out of poverty. “The creative village that is being created, definitely, would provide employment for at least a million Nigerians, who have skills in music, IT, movies, etc. We are beginning to think of the multiplier effects – one million direct youths – it may mean that we may have 20 million youths taken out and given proper jobs. “Now, begin to imagine as well what this edifice would mean if we happen to develop the National Theatre. We have been to several countries in the continent; none of them have an edifice like this. Now, ours is derelict, but we believe in two years, working under the auspices of the CBN Governor, we would be able to raise the requisite private sector funds to support and gave this centre a proper facelift. “We are working with a body called SANEF, which is an institution that holds the interest of the entire banking. So, what we here is the entire banking industry working with the Lagos State Government and the Federal Ministry of Arts and Culture, to ensure that we give grace to our country within the next two years,” he added.