B abatunde Fowler has been so privileged that he moved from being the Chairman of Lagos Inland Revenue Service to become the nation’s tax master as the Chairman of Federal Inland Revenue Service. While some will readily argue his visibility and relevance has been largely on the influence of his god father, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, one fact that will however continue to come up is that, the man at every given assignment has proven to be a master of his game by bringing forth impressive results.   Meanwhile, as impressive and great his career may have been, Fowler has not been able to escape the proverbial unease that lies with the head that wears the crown as he’s at different times battled with all sorts. Going by events that have unfolded, it has actually not been a roller coaster for Fowler in the past couple of weeks as he’s had to deal with one issue or the other. Although, pundits are of the view there are forces who are bent on seeing Fowler exit his position as the chief tax master, hence, all sorts of salvo are being fired. But like one who seems to have envisioned all that will happen, Fowler doesn’t look like one who is likely to fall like a badly packed card as he’s been able to sail through the storm all in his favour.   The first kite flied was that of a purported query from an aide of the President allegedly asking him to explain shortage in revenue. Fowler survived this when the presidency made a categorical statement that doused rising tension. Also, a newspaper had alleged he handed about 90 billion naira to the Vice President in a shady manner. This, he also came out clean following the retraction and apology made by the newspaper company. For now, no one can say what battle will be brought his way tomorrow but as at the time of filing in this report, a Federal High Court in Kano had ruled in favour of Fowler by striking out a suit challenging his Fowler’s tenure as the Chairman of Federal Inland Revenue Service. It is believed in some quarters the suit filed against Fowler may have an option considered following all hatched ways to get him out of office that failed.