For their excellent performance in the education sector, no fewer than three private school teachers in Lagos and a school, Mrs. Elusaki Agnes Iyabo, Ikuseyidunmi Pius Bababo and Adeniyi Oluwasegun and Government Junior College, Epe have won this year’s edition of the 2019 President’s Teachers and Schools Excellence Award (PTSEA). The award, which took place at the Eagle Square, Abuja, was instituted by the Federal Government to reward excellent teachers and schools for their exemplary performance in the education sector. According to the state Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo, who disclosed this while addressing teachers during the 2019 World Teachers’ Day celebration at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Sports’ Complex, the feat was achieved as a result of priority attention the state government is paying to the development of the sector through provision of facilities. “We have professionals and qualified teachers to attain greater heights in delivering quality education to our future leaders,” she noted, commending the teachers and school for their dedication and commitment to teaching jobs, as well as to the growth of the sector. The Commissioner added: “No society can achieve meaningful development in delivering quality education without placing premium value on its teachers. I must confess that only Almighty God can reward your efforts and pray that your labour will not be in vain. Considering your roles, contributions and importance, our teachers must receive and enjoy the rewards for their labour first here on earth, and then in Heaven.” The Commissioner, however, assured teachers in the state that teaching profession would be made more attractive under the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, which has promised to increase budgetary allocation to education, deploy technology driven template to drive the sector, employ more teachers, upscale regular training of teachers, as well as create a conducive teaching and learning environment. She also lauded the leadership of the state wing of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) for ensuring proper cohesion, solidarity and welfare of teachers in the state. While reaffirming that the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) set aside October 5 every year as the World Teachers’ Day, with the aim to celebrate the invaluable contributions and roles of teachers’ in providing quality education to the children, Mrs. Adefisayo, described the theme of this year’s celebration “Young Teachers, the Future of the Profession” as appropriate and apt, as it addressed the need to take a critical look at the teaching profession from a perspective of yesterday, today and tomorrow. “This is for the purpose of repositioning the profession for optimal performance in this present age that global attention is being shifted from resource-based economy to knowledge-based economy,” the Commissioner added. Dignitaries at the event include the Permanent Secretaries/Tutor Generals of the Six Education Districts of the state; the Chairman of Lagos State Civil Service Commission, Mrs. Taiwo Oyemade; Mrs. Bunmi Oteju, who represented the SUBEB Chairman, Mr. Wahab Alawiye King; Chairman Teaching Service Commission, Mrs. Olabisi Ariyo; Director, Education Quality Assurance, Mrs. Bisola Seriki Ayeni; and the NUT Chairman, Otunba Adedoyin Adesina, among other stakeholders.