R ape trial of five students of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) could not hold yesterday because of the absence of the accused.  The undergraduates, accused of gang-raingd a 17-year-old fellow student of the institution (name withheld), are standing trial before an Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos  The students are Moboluwaji Omowole (19), Chuka Chukwu (19), Peace Nwankama (19), James Aguedu (20) and Josephine Osemeka (20).  The male defendants – Omowole, Chukwu and Aguedo, were absent during proceedings due to the inability of the officials of the Kirikiri Medium Prisons to bring them early to court. Justice Abiola Soladoye stood-down proceedings at 9a.m. when none of the defendants were in court.  However, at 10.23a.m., the female defendants, Nwankama and Osemeka, were brought into the courtroom by the officials of the Kirikiri Female Prisons. When the case was called at 10.51a.m., for hearing, the three male defendants were still absent in the courtroom.  Aguedu’s defence counsel, Mr. Lawal Pedro (SAN), registered his displeasure over the development. He said: “The court sits at 9a.m. We, the state and citizens, are equal before the law.  “The same indulgence (standing-down the case) will not have been granted if the situation were reversed.”  Reacting to Pedro’s submission, a Director in the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Dr. Jide Martins, noted that the delay was not caused by the prosecution.  He said: “The correctional services are yet to bring the defendants to court. I do not want to speculate but one can generally assume that it is caused by the traffic situation. “I am not comfortable with the aspersion that is inferred that the delay was at the instance of the prosecution.  “This is beyond our control. We have done our part, our witness is in court and we are ready to proceed with our case.”  As a result of the absence of the three male defendants, Justice Soladoye adjourned the case till December 3 for continuation of trial. The prosecution said the defendants committed the offences sometime in 2017 in UNILAG, Akoka, Lagos.   “Omowole, Chukwu and Aguedo sometime in the month of January and sometime in the month of February 2017 defiled the complainant by having unlawful sexual intercourse with her.  “Chukwu sometime in January 2017 at No. 25, Shobande St., Akoka, Yaba, Lagos knowingly allowed Omowole to defile the complainant by having unlawful sexual intercourse with her.  “Nwankama, Aguedo and Osameka between the months of January to March 2017 were into the procuration (obtaining) of young girls for the purpose of defilement. “Osemeka sometime in the month of January 2017, in UNILAG, sexually assaulted the complainant by kissing her,” Martins said.