The Lagos State government has discovered five containerised ladden trucks with suspected rotten edible items in Apapa area of the state, New Telegraph has authoritatively learnt.
Consequently, the government said it had begun high-powered investigation on the items on the containers belonging to Sifax, off Dock Nigeria Limited to ascertain the extent of the damage and confirm the safety of the items for consumption of the residents.
It was learnt that total of 13 houses are located on the street where the containers are located, leaving huge impact on four houses. Some of the houses affected number 2, 4, 6 and 8 Trinity Close Apapa.
The discovery of the suspected rotten frozen items followed series of complaints by the residents to the Lagos State Eveniromental Protection Agency (LASEPA) and other relevant agencies on the presence of the containers ladden with maldourish food items.
It was learnt that out of the 25 containers located in the area, five of them had their consignments rotten and emitting a foul odour which the residents said was endangering their health.
Following a barrage of complaints from the residents, a joint action team comprising the General Manager of LASEPA, Dr Fashawe and his counterparts in the Lagos Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) conducted an on-the-spot Inspection of the containers to confirm the reports of air pollution and release of toxic gas into the environment.
According to the LASEMA: “The joint-team discovered edibles including fish which had become rotten due to faulty refrigerators.
“The DG/CEO LASEMA observed the absence of emergency action preparedness plan and appropriate safety measures in place to curtail such incidence and guard against re-occurence.
“A total number of 25 containers were located. Five containers laden with edibles have faulty refrigerators. The edibles have therefore defrosted and have become rotten causing severe health hazard to the environment.
“A total number of 13 houses are located on the street where the containers are located, leaving huge impact on four houses: houses number 2, 4, 6 and 8 Trinity Close, Apapa.”