Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Vice-President of the World Bank, Sandie Okoro and other prominent Nigerians are billed for this year’s Nigerian Legal Awards. Others are President Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Abimbola Ogunbanjo and a former Vice-President African Development Bank (AfDB), Cecilia Akintomide. The 2019 Nigerian Legal Awards would also recognize a host of legal luminaries at the biggest legal event of the year which would be held at the Landmark Event Centre, Oniru, Victoria Island, Lagos. This year’s event will recognize the important contributions of eminent legal icons, lawyers and firms who had contributed to the development of business law in the country, leaving behind lasting imprints on the fabrics of Nigerian law. For instance, Osinbajo would be recognized for his invaluable contribution to the development of business law in Nigeria especially through his landmark contribution towards the attainment of the milestone of Ease of Doing Business, the promotion of transparency, ethics and good governance in Africa’s biggest economy. According to the organizers, Osinbajo who had contributed immensely to the development of law in Nigeria both at the international level as an academic, democrat, legal practitioner, and the Vice President of Nigeria deserved the awards as his contribution towards reshaping the lives of young Nigerian lawyers would be recognized at this year’s Nigerian Legal Awards. Also, Okoro, a Senior Vice-President and General Counsel of World Bank Group would be recognized at this year’s awards for her tremendous contribution to the development of diversity and inclusion in the global legal community. Other awardees at this year’s awards included Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President of the National Council of the Nigerian Stock Exchange and Managing Partner of Chris Ogunbanjo LLP, Cecilia Akintomide, Independent Non-Executive Director of FBN Holdings and Fmr. Vice President Secretary General of the African Development Bank, Sola Adepetun, founding Partner of one of Nigeria’s most reputable firms, Adepetun Caxton-Martins & Segun (ACAS-LAW) and Chairman, Board of Directors, Standard Chartered Bank, Prof. Yinka Omorogbe, Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Edo State and Fmr. National Secretary to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Adedoyin Rhodes-Vivour, SAN, Managing Partner of Doyin Rhodes-Vivour as well as Olumide Akpata, former Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association Section on Business Law will be recognized at the 2019 Nigerian Legal Awards To celebrate the ingenuity of the various law firms, the recognition has been split in various categories including Law Firm of the Year, Managing Partner of the Year, Banking and Finance, Oil and Gas, Dispute Resolution, Private Equity, Real Estate and Construction, Capital Market, Intellectual Property, among others. Of note also, is the honouring of 40 under-40 Rising Stars lawyers, who had made giant strides within the Nigerian legal space. The Nigerian Legal Awards which being convened by ESQ Legal Blitz is the only platform projecting the achievements of legal players within Nigeria’s thriving business law community. The awards represent the beacon of honour and prestige on the achievements recorded in the Nigerian legal industry. Among the guests expected at this year’s event are; a team from the World Bank, the African Development Bank, Senior Advocates of Nigeria, CEOs of multinationals, supranational and intranational corporations, captains of Nigeria most prestigious institutions and other eminent personalities.