In order to help the young person’s navigate social problems arising from over-dependence on technology including drug addiction, pornography, sexual abuse, among others, stakeholders at a recent conference have advocated the use of natural family planning to help them sustain good health in marriage relationship as well as to space their children. Also, the stakeholders have stressed the need to live a life of chastity both as singles and married couples. They made the call at a recent conference with the theme: “Responding to the Challenges of Youth, Family and Society: The Millenial’s Response.” The event was organised by the Foundation for African Cultural Heritage (FACH), at the University of Lagos recently. FACH is a civil society organisation, making society more humane, promoting family and African cultural values Some of the resource persons at the event were Professor of Performance Studies and Arts Administration, Sola Fosudo, Imam Gidado Taofiq Miqdad, Director of Islamic Affairs and Chief Imam of the Nigerian Navy, Ms Nkem Agboti, a cooperate lawyer and a volunteer with FACH, Dr. Nkechi Asogwa, a director of FACH, among others. The event was attended mostly by students from secondary schools and higher institutions. One hundred and sixty-one participants attended the conference. In her presentation, a model, speaker, digital influencer and Stanford Certified Nutrition Expert, Nicole Chikwe, who urged the participants and other young persons to practice natural family planning only, said this practice must be done by marriage couples only. Chikwe said: “Sex is meant to be between a husband and a wife, for procreation, unity and bonding.” She, however, stressed: “Even within marriage, we are called to life of chastity. Unless you want to have children every year, which is fine, too, but if not, you must abstain from sex at certain period of the month, which is the natural family planning method.” In effect, she reasoned that adopting the natural family planning could help to space and time births of babies. On her part, Dr. Asogwa, who spoke on the side lines of the conference, highlighted some of the problems facing young persons as peer pressure, dependence on hard drugs, sexual abuse and pornography. She added: “Quite a lot of young people get carried away with living imaginary life online.” Asogwa said: “We get to hear of deaths from abortions, even when it is carried out by medically qualified professionals. We see that girls could die from abortion not only in this country but in the world at large. “We are looking at things that harm these young people and suggesting how we can help them and their parents. That is why we believe that the family is key in solving these problems.” For her, the consequence of sex was pregnancy. However, to prevent pregnancies, she said, “What we under the umbrella of FACH can offer is chastity and value education.” Giving the background to some problems facing young persons, Agboti said: “Nowadays we are in an era where almost every underage person have been exposed to pornography, where we don’t have the right curricular being taught in schools and youths are not getting appropriate information in some of the subjects.”