The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers’ Committee will tomorrow in Lagos, kick-off implementation of their N22 billion Creative Industries Financing Initiative (CIFI), which will see them giving a “tremendous facelift” to the National Theatre. CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, disclosed this in Lagos, yesterday, while speaking at the Creative Nigeria Summit. According to him, the CBN and the Bankers’ Committee have obtained the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Lagos State Government to go ahead with the scheme, which will entail a   40 acre Creative Industry park being  developed around the National Theatre with similar parks to be located in Kano, Port Harcourt or Enugu. He said: “With the kind support of the Federal and Lagos State Governments, the National Theater Iganmu in Lagos is expected to serve as the initial pilot for the Creative Industries Park.  Our plan is to develop a 40- acre Creative Industry Park around the National Theater including giving the Theater itself tremendous facelift; thereby reopening the touring potential the National Theater offered during the FESTAC 77 arts culture.” He noted that the creative industries financing initiative, which is aimed at unlocking the creative talents of Nigerian youths, is designed to increase the revenue of the industry by $300 million. He said the banking industry, through the initiative, which would be implemented over a five year period, will support the development of 50 new cinemas in addition to its current capacity of 48 cinemas nationwide and increase the contribution of the movie industry to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to three per cent from the current level of one per cent. The CBN Governor said: “Our goal through the establishment of these parks is to create an environment where startups and existing businesses can be incubated and rewarded for their creativity. In each of these parks, efforts will be focused on discovering the most innovative young entrepreneurs across the music, movie, fashion and IT industries.