YIAGA Africa, a Civil Society Organisation (CSO), has alleged that voter inducement is already ongoing in Kogi and Bayelsa states ahead of the November 16 governorship polls in the respective states. Executive Director of the group, Mr. Samson Itodo, in a statement, yesterday, said that the organisation noticed voter inducement during its voter education campaign and pre-election observation. Itodo said that YIAGA Africa’s Watching The Vote (WTV) project deployed long term observers to local government areas in both Kogi and Bayelsa state to observe pre-election environment. He said that some findings were in the areas of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) preparedness, political campaign, voter education and participation of marginalised groups, and early warning signs of electoral violence among other things. The statement reads in part: “Generally, voter inducement was reported in at least one in every three of the 21 LGAs in Kogi, and in all LGAs in Bayelsa. “WTV observers witnessed or heard of cases of voter inducement in Kolokuma, Opokuma, Southern Ijaw, Yenagoa, Brass, Ogbia, Nembe and Sagbama LGAs in Bayelsa State. “They also observed or heard of voter inducement in Adavi, Ogori, Mangogo, Okehi, Okene, Bassa, Ibaji, Idah, Kabba/Bunu and Kogi K.K LGAs of Kogi State,” he said. Itodo said that observers also monitored the pre-election environment relating to the activities of INEC from September 9 to October 3. According to him, it was noticed that Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) distribution were conducted by INEC and voter education was also conducted in collaboration with National Orientation Agency (NOA) and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) across the states. He recommended that INEC should ensure inclusion, especially for all marginalised groups because there was need for proactive and targeted communication using different channels of communication on the electoral process. He also urged INEC to beef off its oversight and monitoring mechanisms to further strengthen and ensure compliance to the electoral laws and guidelines, while avoiding unnecessary postponements of poll. Itodo further called on the electoral umpire to come up with robust mechanism and collaborate with both state and non-state actors to curb the menace of buying and selling of PVCs and other forms of voter inducement. He also advised security agencies to be more intentional in addressing early signs of violence like hate speech, physical attacks, communal crises, voter inducements, and other criminal activities ongoing in the pre-election environment. According to him, security agencies must engage in active communication with citizens on the principles regulating security deployment and operations ahead of the election. He encouraged candidates and their supporters to ensure that they promote unity and peaceful election by refraining from any form of physical or verbal attacks on opponents or their supporters.