As Nigeria rolls out the drum to celebrate its 59th independence anniversary, it is estimated that over 17 million Nigerians are without roofs over their heads, as issues inhibiting affordable housing provision and mortgage system are yet to be resolved. Dayo Ayeyemi reports   In the last 356 days, there have been some issues limiting home ownership among Nigerians, despite the determination of both government and other stakeholders to carry out major reforms in the housing and mortgage finance sectors. One year after, New Telegraph’s survey  showed that there is no hope in sight concerning the removal  of these growth inhibitors to  affordable housing provision and mortgage finance in the country. Some of the sector’s growth inhibitors are land tenure policy, legal enforcement, foreclosure, regulatory bottlenecks, high interest rate, land use charge, permitting and approval issues, infrastructure and funding, among others. While a few housing construction took place within the last one year, stakeholders noted that the sector’s performance, however, slowed due to lack of liquidity in the market, poor economy and volatile operating environment, which impacted negatively on firms in the housing industry since 2016. The prices of available housing units are also beyond the reach of the targeted group, while vacant houses still dot urban landscape in the country. Between October 2018 and 2019, New Telegraph gathered that the housing initiative by the Federal Government under its pilot housing programme in 34 states of the federation also stalled due to lack of standard design. Also, some of the housing and mortgage related bills before the National Assembly are yet to be passed, limiting progress in the sector Currently, Nigeria has an estimated population of over 200 million people, 17million housing deficit and over 42 per cent of youth unemployment. To bridge accommodation deficit, the nation needs to build one million houses per year in the next 20 years. Also, it would require over N60 trillion to fix the housing gap. Sector performance Nigerian property market contributed 6.44 per cent to real Gross Domestic Products (GDP) in the second quarter  of 2019, higher than the 5.57 per cent it recorded in the preceding quarter, but lower than the corresponding quarter of 2018. However, the sector’s GDP growth in Q2 2019 is  –4.78 percentage points lower, compared to the 0.93 per cent it reported in Q1  2019, but is higher than the -3.88 per cent recorded in Q2 2018. FMBN Between April 2017 and March 2019, The Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) said that it disbursed the sum of N58billion  as housing loans to 23,600 beneficiaries. The Group Head, Corporate Communications, FMBN, Mrs. Zubaida Umar, recently confirmed this in a statement. The statement, according to Umar, said the amount covered the National Housing Fund Mortgage loans to 3,171 Nigerian workers valued at N22.3 bilion, Home Renovation Loans valued at N16.9 billion to 20,429 Nigerian workers and Estate Development loans valued at N13.6billion. Family Homes Fund Within the year,  Family Homes Fund (FHF) entered into N19.3  billion housing deals with  government of Adamawa and Yobe states. The deals are to provide 4,300 housing units. While 2,000 house are to be built for civil servants  and other low income earners  in Adamawa State  with N8.3 billion, 2,300  housing units are to be provided in Yobe State to the tune of N10.8 billion. Agreements on the delivery of the housing units have a 10-year repayment tenure. Managing Director of Family Homes Fund Ltd, Femi Adewole, said the firm was in partnership with many states and private developers,  planning  to deliver 500,000 housing units across Nigeria in the next five years. Reforms Although there are ongoing efforts to recapitalise FMBN  and the Primary Mortgage Banks  (PMBs) to be able to deliver on their mandate of provision of  affordable mortgage finance to home builders and subscribers, benefits of these are yet to be seen. During the year, the Central Bank of Nigeria announced the removal of interest cap rate on mortgage finance for primary mortgage banks in the country. Experts’ views The impact of the action, some housing experts said, could further increase interest rate charged by the banks and worsen accessibility to housing finance by Nigerians. But, Managing Director of Infinity Mortgage Bank, Mr. Banjo Obaleye, said that the apex bank’s objective was to open way for gradual reduction of interest on mortgage finance while keeping with international best practice in mortgage finance management. Other stakeholders in the housing industry comprising Affordable Housing Advocate, Mr Kunle Faleti, President of Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria, Mr Ugochukwu Chime; a former President, Nigerian Institute of Building, Mr. Kenneth Nduka; a former President of Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Mr. Stephen Onu and many others, have called on the Federal Government to reform Nigeria’s broken mortgage finance system. They also tasked the National Assembly on the need to expedite actions on housing and mortgage related bills before it in order to create  business investment and drive national development. They also canvassed the adoption of Mortgage Legislation on Model Mortgage and Foreclosure Law (MMFL). Last line The need to remove all growth inhibitors in the sector has become imperative to creating easy access to land, mortgages in order to make loans available to home seekers in the country.