…as inmate population stands at 74,081   I n its determination at decongesting the prison population, the Federal Government has released a total of 3,768 inmates from different correctional formations across the country, in the last two years.   Statistics from the website of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) indicate that as at October 14, 2019, the total prison population stood at 74,081. Out of the number, 72,662 were male inmates, while 1,419 were female offenders.  Available records further showed that a total of 51,380 inmates were awaiting trial for various crimes, even as 22,701 were convicts. Worried by the growing number of inmates across prison cells and its attendant pressure on security and limited facilities, the Federal Government had, in October 2017, constituted a Presidential Committee on Prisons Reforms and Decongestion.  The committee, which is headed by the Chief Judge of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court, Justice Ishaq Bello, was saddled with the responsibility of, among other things, developing technology-based strategies towards the decongestion of prisons nationwide. New Telegraph gathered that since its inauguration, the committee has continued to work round-the-clock, with visits to at least 15 states of the federation.  Our correspondent learnt that a total of 3,768 inmates had, so far, been freed from various prison cells by the committee, owing to the nature of their offences.  Factors that necessitate release of inmates from prisons, according to findings, include: cases with option of fines, age, ill-health as well as errors. Secretary of the presidential committee, Mrs. Leticia Ayoola-Daniels, confirmed the figure in a text message to New Telegraph.  Also speaking, spokesperson for the NCS, Mr. Francis Enobore, a Comptroller, said once it was discovered that an inmate had no “concrete reason” to be incarcerated, the committee ordered their immediate release.  When asked to give an estimate of the number of inmates so far freed by the committee, he said: “They have released over 3,000 inmates from various prisons.”