Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, yesterday, disclosed that the Ministry of Aviation has made a request for a special grant of N10 billion to President Muhammadu Buhari for the completion of the reconstruction of the runways of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. The minister, who made the revelation at an interactive meeting with members of the House of Representatives’ Committee on Aviation, said that there is a structural damage at the airport that required the reconstruction work. He told the committee that the ministry had made a formal request for the approval of N10 billion from President Buhari for the reconstruction work at the airport. He further hinted that they had negotiated with the contractor and made payment of the initial bill of quantities for the contract sum and added that the presidential grant is required to complete the repairs. Sirika explained that there is also a Nexim Bank loan for the reconstruction of the airport and added that work would be completed before the end of December 2019. Also addressing the lawmakers, the permanent secretary of the ministry, Mallam Hassan Musa, said that plans are at an advanced stage to concession the four international airports: Port Harcourt, Abuja, Kano and Lagos. He further informed that the ministry is working at unveiling an Aviation Master Plan that would ensure total reformation and reconstruction of the nation’s airports. According to him, plans are on underway for the establishment of an aerospace university and a national carrier. On the challenges militating against safety and security of air passengers, he said that poor facilities, lack of manpower and high cost of aviation fuel are the major challenges in the industry. Chairman of the House Committee, Hon. Nnolim Nnaji, and other lawmakers told the minister that the House is worried over non-commencement of the rehabilitation work at the Enugu airport. Nnaji said that aviation is the gateway to the nation’s economy and that the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu is strategic for it as the gateway to the South-East region and other parts of the country.