Trading activities on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) ended the month of September positive with record N59 billion gain to close at N13.450 trillion in market capitalisation. The growth in market capitalisation during the month was due to positive sentiment by investors following the inauguration of ministers and other officials that will give clear policy direction of the economy and expectation of the third quarter’s financial performance. Available statistics to New Telegraph showed that the trading year opened at N13.391 trillion in market capitalisation and 27,525.81 in index at the beginning of September 1, 2019, and closed the month at N13.450 trillion and 27,630.56 index points, thus gaining about N59 billion or +0.4 per cent. However, market analysts believe bargain hunters, especially foreign portfolio investors, who dominate the market, traded cautiously during the month as selloffs persisted amidst growing insecurity and political tension from the delay in constitution of new cabinet by the Federal Government. The move to assign portfolios came six months after Buhari won the presidential election and nearly three months after his second term began. The time taken to appoint ministers had caused jitters among investors and threatened growth prospects. Even as the president had constituted his cabinet, market watchers still believe that investors, especially foreigners, were unlikely to make significant investment in the market until they had a clear picture of the policy direction of government. This, according to them, is lack of vital information about what the economy direction is going to look like, which had left investors uncertain about what policies government would implement as regards the socio-political and economic environment. The Managing Director, Cowry Asset Management Limited, Mr. Johnson Chukwu, while reacting to the development, said policies of government would determine the return of foreign investors and an upturn in investment in the capital market. Chukwu noted that the economic policies of the new government would make the capital market attractive or unattractive for investors, both local and international. He said: “If government comes up with policies that make Nigerian instruments very attractive and then stabilises the exchange rate or the exchange rate is at a level where foreign investors believe it will not depreciate materially further, then you will see the return of foreign investors, which may up their shares in the market.” Chukwu said to encourage more retail investors to come back to the market; the returns matrix must favour equities against fixed income. United Capital Asset Management Limited Managing Director, Odiri Oginni, in a report, said despite the attractiveness of Nigerian equities when compared to other African and emerging markets, interest in Nigerian equities may remain depressed for the rest of the year as the overall economic condition remains challenging. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had said that the major contributory factor to the current downward trend of the market was the outflow of foreign investment. Acting Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, said recently that the outflow had led to sell pressure accumulating into depressed prices. She said this was the reasons the commission is mapping out strategies to build confidence in the market and encourage more retail investors.