Pauline Onyibe, Yenagoa With just 40 days to the Bayelsa State governorship election, a non-governmental organisation, Center for Democracy and Development (CDD), has assured that it will do all within its reach to make sure that fake news does not thrive within the period of election. The group said it will name and shame any politician that will want to thrive on fake news, maintaining that it was the only way to go so that democracy will be stabilized in the country. Speaking on Wednesday during a meeting with journalists and political parties in Yenagoa, the state capital, Austin Aigbe the group’s Programme Director, however, reeled out the dangers of fake news adding that fake news if not properly checked can lead to loss of lives. The NGO’s spokesman said: “All should declare war against fake news which is undermining democracy in Bayelsa State and Nigeria. “We thought that fake news was going to hamper the 2019 general elections so we countered all the fake news. We are also going to do that in the Bayelsa election come November 16. “Fake news is has the capacity to disrupt the electoral process and cause electoral violence.” Maintaining that a candidate can be disqualified by the voters because of fake news, the NGO said that fake news can also lead to voter apathy. Speaking earlier, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Uche Anozia had disclosed the factors that bring about electoral violence which he said revolves around the politicians. He said the thugs hired by the politicians always ferment violence during elections. Hear him: “Those who cause this violence are thugs hired by the politicians of the major political parties.” He, however, regretted that most of them unfortunately were not at the meeting. Representative of the security agencies, like the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Airforce, the Nigerian Navy, political parties and IPAC also agreed that there was need for fake news to be checkmated especially now that the Bayelsa State governorship election is fast approaching.