A recent research has proved that laughter has many health benefits. According to the study published in the ‘Journal of Neuroscience’ when people gathered to watch 30 minutes of comedy clips, their bodies released endorphins or “feel good” chemicals in the brain through opioid receptors causing feelings of “euphoria” without the obvious downside of taking drugs. Dr. Judy Kuriansky, the renowned international psychologist and author of “The Complete Idiot’s Guide to a Healthy Relationship,” said laughter helps form a bond between two people. “Laughter can become contagious and is a great technique to share your experience with another person,” she said. “It’s also a way to switch your brain into a happier mode when you are feeling sad. You can start with a chuckle and work your way up to a full, all-out belly laugh. Don’t hold back! Laughing helps release tension and anxiety because it interrupts the patterning of our brain so we can let go and stop obsessing over what’s worrying us.” Other ways laughter helps the body include: Exercise: “When you allow yourself a good, old fashioned belly laugh, you are using your stomach muscles, shoulders, opening up your lungs and actually improving your posture,” said Kuriansky. “We spend so much of our time slumped over our devices that a good laugh can open up the heart and our bodies.” Cardiovascular health: Laughing appears to have an anti-inflammatory effect that protects blood vessels and heart muscles from cardiovascular disease, according to a study conducted by the University of Maryland Medical Center. It expands the inner lining of the blood vessels to allow blood to flow more freely. Stress, by the way, has the opposite effect: It causes the blood vessels to constrict, reducing blood flow. “The benefits of laughter cannot be understated,” said Cleveland Clinic cardiologist Dr. Benico Barzilai. “Laughter leads to an immediate reduction in the body’s negative response to stress and causes the blood vessels in the body — including the heart — to increase blood flow as needed.” Stress reduction: Laughter has been found to have other beneficial effects on our biochemistry, including a reduction of stress hormones such as cortisol and epinephrine, which can cause cell damage. Boosts immune system: Laughter boosts the number of antibody-producing cells that can lead to a stronger immune system.