Kabir Shitu,  the presidential candidate of the Advanced Peoples Democratic Alliance (APDA), in the last general election,  speaks about the nation’s multi-party system and the 2020 budget. BIYI ADEGOROYE reports   What is your impression about rural-urban migration and insecurity in the country?  In order to stop urban immigration, we need to create employment opportunities. It is unemployment that has created insecurity. Therefore, it is now time to create employment by putting on processing industries that will suite each local government. It is time we call each state to bring one cash crop or aquatic resources to develop. They can use that to create employment within their areas.  It is visible. We are human beings, if we are willing, if we have patriotic leaders we can develop this country. What is the growth of our country? Within one month we can clear everything that is why the president has given an instruction that no minister should leave the country until they defend the budget of their ministries. Our industries are in a bad shape. What do you think should be done to revamp them?  In order not to allow the hard time that is why it is time for us to create industries. We have to ban exploitation of raw materials. For thousands of years, Africa has been exporting raw material even including crude oil. It is time we ban exportation of crude oil. We must refine our crude oil and stop importations of fuels. AGO, PMS, even asphalt, until we ban the importations of these goods we have in our country and encourage processing industry to grow in our local government areas and take comparative advantage of resources within each of local governments we cannot create employment opportunity.  How do you see the plans to borrow to fund the 2020 budget? I don’t believe that we should be taking loan to service our budget. Let us put our budget according to our earnings. If we earn 10 million, let us spend five million and keep five million. It is wrong for us to be earning 10 million and spend 100 million. For me, I am happy that Mr. President is coming up with 20 years plan to be able to develop the economy. I’ve been advocate since 2006 in order for us to grow our local industry to discourage importation materials. Now that they’ve closed our border, the must encourage local production. It is time that we quickly encourage local production, locally industries, processing industries and ban exportation and importation of any material that can be sourced in Nigeria. Those policies must go hand in hand, closing our border, encourage local industries, encourage processing, ban exportation of raw materials, and importation of any material that can be sourced within the country. What is the vision of your party in this regard?  For us, we want to build an ideological party, not just to win contest. We want to deviate from forming a party just to contest an election to an ideological political party that will promote the sustainability of the country, not necessarily we go into an election. We have two-party in America and they only encourage that party that can take America into a greater future and when they see such, they come out for it. That is the type of our party. How do you see plans to reduce political parties in the country?  The political party system in Nigeria is a jamboree. You can register a party today and tomorrow register another. We always throw a baby with the bath water. Why not look at the two political parties and say look, ‘put a reform that a party who knows they will get 200 to 500 members within a local government will be there.’ The way it is done in America when we have party data within a country. Whenever a bigger party, which is national, wants to go into that party in the local government, which they called county now America, even in China, they say we are here to collaborate and win election around that place, then you close on party to the state party. Probably if you have one or two million followers, you could be called a state party like the way APGA is today.  APGA has sustained its status as a state party in Anambra State for the past 12 years. And that party can say ‘look for you as a presidential candidate to win that state you have to collaborate with the state party. It started in 1999, where AD had only five states in the West.  Then it diminished to one state which is Lagos. They surged in 2007, then 2011. Today AD has metamorphosed to ACN and then APC. Today, they are a national party. If 2003 they killed AD, would they have APC today? Why can’t we look at history? Where APGA in 1999 or in 2003 but today APGA was owns a state and has some federal lawmakers. We must reform our political parties system and we must remove state Electoral Commission in order to allow competition in local government administration, many, many parties would win their local government but because you have state electoral commission that is on the hand of the governor of the day. No party he can win any local government in any state without the blessing on the state government and that is where we have killed our political party also our economy. When you place the fate of local government in the hands state governors then you kill the economy because nothing go down to the local government and that is where you have the land, you have the capital and you even have the labor and we are not using this and that is why we are not growing that is why crime is not taking away in every local government because we didn’t encourage rural development which should have started from local government administration.