 T he Nigerian Army has announced the posting and appointment of five Major-Generals and four Brigadier-Generals in an exercise it said was aimed at achieving greater professional efficiency. A statement by the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, showed that Major-General Musa Yusuf, had been appointed Commander, Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) with headquarters in Ndajamena, Chad, while Major-General F. O. Agugo, now resumed as General Officer Commanding (GOC) 6 Division, Port Harcourt. “The Nigerian Army has released the postings and appointments of its officers. The posting, which was approved by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-General T. Y. Buratai, is a routine exercise to reinvigorate the system for greater professional efficiency,” Musa said. According to him, “The highlight includes the appointment of Major-General F. O. Agugo, erstwhile Chief of Army Transformation and Innovation as the General Officer Commanding, 6 Division, Port Harcourt, Major-General J. Sarham, former General Officer Commanding, 6 Division, is now the Commandant, Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, while Major-General C. O. Ude, has been redeployed from Headquarters, Multinational Joint Task Force, Ndjamena, Chad, to Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja and appointed Director, Nigerian Army Consult. “Others include Major-General I. M. Yusuf, from Nigerian Army Resource Centre, Abuja to Headquarters, Multinational Joint Task Force, Ndajamena, Chad, as Commander; while Major-General E. N. Njoku, has been redeployed from Defence Headquarters to Army Headquarters Department of Transformation and Innovation as Chief of Transformation and Innovation (Army). “Similarly, Brigadier-General E. J. Amadasun, from Headquarters, Nigerian Army Corps of Artillery, Kontagora, to 35 Brigade, Abeokuta and appointed Commander; Brigadier-General A. M. Adetayo, of Army Headquarters, Department of Army Transformation, is now the Chief of Staff, Nigerian Army Corps of Artillery, while Brigadier-General L. M. Zakari, from Defence Headquarters, Abuja, to Nigerian Army Institute of Science, Education and Technology, Ilorin, as Acting Commandant, Brigadier-General E. E. Ekpenyong, is posted from Nigerian Army Ordnance School, Ojo, Lagos, to Headquarters, Nigerian Army Ordnance Corps, Yaba, Lagos, as Director of Land Service, Ammunition.” He added that; “The Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-General Tukur Yusufu Buratai, while wishing them well in their respective appointments, charges them to take their new responsibilities seriously and discharge all duties professionally with utmost loyalty to service and the nation. All the appointments take immediate effect.”