T he value of artworks by Nigerian artists sold at African art auctions increased to $5,539,648 (2017) from $3,794,924 (2016) and $2,990,395 (2015), with Sotheby’s 2017 entry into the field of modern and contemporary African accounting for $1,345,631 from a single sale of 15 works by Nigerian artists.   No doubt, with this unprecedented growth, several questions arise, among which are: How do we establish a reliable value of an art work? How do we transform the market for art from Nigeria and embark on new directions in art lending, investment and wealth management? What are the challenges and risks? How do we develop appropriate regulatory and legal frameworks?   Thus, ‘Raising Capital Against High Value Works of Art’ which is the focus of the second edition ‘Point of View’, a monthly series talks by The Ben Enwonwu Foundation, seeks to encourage the growing recognition of Nigerian art as a new alternative asset class while providing a deeper understanding of the appraising of art holdings for liquidation, and of using art as collateral for lending transactions such as financing business expansions and investments or high-end purchases. It also aims to support the development of art investment products, as well as the diversification of investment portfolios with the integration of art.   The event which is organised by Ben Enwonwu Foundation in collaboration with the Society of Nigerian Artists will hold tomorrow, Thursday October 17, at Alliance Française/Mike Adenuga Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos.   “Drawing from other creative disciplines and experiences to take a broad helicopter view of the art scene in Nigeria and Africa, ‘Point of View’ aims to encourage support and funding for the visual arts through public and private sector partnership while ensuring continuing artist’s professional development and empowerment,” the Foundation stated in a release announcing the event.   “Conceived as a collaborative platform, the second edition of ‘Point of View’ titled ‘Raising Capital Against High Value Works of Art’ brings together a diverse line-up of artists, curators, writers, thinkers, wealth managers and policy makers. It is informed by mounting global interest on art from the continent and a steady growth of the collectors’ base within Africa and especially in Nigeria.”   Speakers include Bola Asiru, Principal, Sub-Saharan Africa MasterCard Advisors Business and Co-Founder, Red Door Gallery; and Tayo Fagbule, Chairman, Editorial Board at BusinessDay. Panellists on the evening are; Prof. Koyinsola Ajayi SAN, Managing Partner, Olaniwun Ajayi LP; Nigeria’s leading art collector and founder, Omooba Yemisi Adedoyin Shyllon Foundation (OYASAF), Omooba Yemisi Adedoyin Shyllon; Chief Executive Officer,  Arthouse Contemporary Limited, Kavita Chellaram; and Managing Partner, Coronation Capital, John Opubor.   This event is sponsored by Mydrim Gallery and Red Door Gallery, and supported by Alliance Française/Mike Adenuga Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos, Jackson Etti & Edu, Lagos Paris Art, Hundids Magazine, Connect Nigeria, The Sole Adventurer, Onobello and Omenka.  Point of View was launched on September 17, 2019 with ‘A Case for the Artist’s Resale Right’. It centred on the implementation of resale royalty rights for Nigerian visual artists as recognised by the Berne convention for the protection of literary and Artistic works.   The Ben Enwonwu Foundation (BEF) was established in 2003 in honour of the celebrated Nigerian artist, Professor Benedict Chukwukadibia Enwonwu MBE, NNOM (1917-94). The Foundation aims to sustain and build on his life and works through which he forged a philosophical basis for contemporary Nigerian art by fusing Western techniques and indigenous traditions.   In 2004, the Foundation started its distinguished lecture series, which has become a major gathering for the rich diversity of contemporary Nigerian society. It offers an opportunity for national and international leaders, renowned academics and policy makers to share their understanding and perspectives on the role of art in causing desirable societal changes while contributing to nation building and economic empowerment.   Through scholarships and grants, The Ben Enwonwu Foundation supports research, exhibitions and publications that foster innovative and scholarly artistic expression. Previous beneficiaries of the scheme include students of Yaba College of Technology, Ahmadu Bello University, Obafemi Awolowo University and the University of Lagos.   In furtherance of its objectives, the Foundation opened an art centre in the artist’s home to promote research into his practice. The centre’s year-round educational programme explores Enwonwu’s art practice, the cultural and social context of his work and links to contemporary themes. The centre also houses leading gallery, Omenka, which represents a select number of African and international artists while examining in an experimental and research-minded way, contemporary art developments and discourses in Nigeria. Currently, the Foundation is embarking on several projects, which include publishing a catalogue raisonné of Enwonwu’s works, as well as autobiography, lectures and writings on contemporary African art.