A s the leadership of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) is preparing for yet another round of strike over Federal Government’s failure to heed their funding demands, ex-lecturer at the Mass Communication department of the University of Ibadan, Professor Anjuwon Akinwande has knocked the Union for not being absolutely sincere in its agitations.   Akinwande, who was of the opinion that ASUU strikes had become cosmetic and not yielding desired effects, spoke with New Telegraph in his Ibadan residence, lending his weight to the emergence of the recently-formed union: Congress of University Academics (CONUA), whose executive had broken away from the ASUU at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU).   He said “it is about time we had this development in Nigeria,” although he agreed to have benefitted from the ASUU agitations in the past, Akinwande said that as a professor, he and many other colleagues were not attending ASUU congresses or participate in the strikes simply because they knew the leadership and many members did not have clean motives about their agitations. He said the younger lecturers would always come and chase them out of their offices during the striking period. Expressing his disenchantment towards the ASUU under the presidency of Professor Biodun Ogunyemi, the retired don said “unfortunately, I was part of ASUU before my retirement. When ASUU goes on strike, I want to believe they do so in most cases for selfish purpose. “This is because most lecturers don’t even write anything on the board. In my time, I used to carry my chalks, pen and board cleaner or duster in my bag. Lecturers should even sometimes spend their money to improve the quality of their teaching as some of used to do. “But how many lecturers do any of those? My dear, if anyone has conscience, how will you be out of job for six months and then come back after the strike and be paid the six months’ salary? And what do they do with the money other than buy Tokunbo vehicles. You see many cars in their compound. So, where will this lead us when the students are being cheated and their time wasted? Any leader must be ready to spend and sacrifice. “We need to change our orientation to life and shed the spirit of selfishness. A police lady recently assisted an armed robbery victim by paying his hospital bills. She deserves a national award for that. “In the U.S., a woman went to steal food to feed her starving children and she was arrested. A police officer dipped her hand in her pocket and gave her money, bought groceries for her, and took care of her accommodation. That is what we should be doing in Nigeria.”