The Chairman of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission (PCACC) Muhyu Magaji, has explained how the commission organised a sting operation that led to the arrest of one Ali Shehu, a lecturer at the Kano State School of Technology, who pleaded guilty to sexually harassing a female student.  Speaking with Saturday Telegraph, Magaji said his agency first received a complaint from the female student (name withheld), who alleged that Shehu had been pestering her for sex in exchange for good examination marks.  He said the female student reported that the lecturer, who is attached to the Computer Science Department, had been communicating with her through WhatsApp Erha platform, while threatening to fail her if she did not accept his sexual demands.  Magaji added that the student recorded all the conversations she had with the lecturer and reported him to the commission after he asked her to meet with him in person. “That was when the commission arranged its men and attached them to the student to follow her where he asked her to meet him. When our people arrived at the meeting point, they saw the lecturer already waiting for the student, with exams booklet in his hands, ready to award her marks once she accepted his amorous demands,” he said.  Magaji also noted that his agency got the support of Shehu’s employers on the activities of the randy lecturer and the efforts to arrest him, recalling that he was nabbed at Ummi Plaza by the agency officials, who caught him in the cat while inserting his hands in his victim’s private part. Meanwhile, the Kano State Polytechnic, to which School of Technology is attached, has set up a committee to investigate Shehu, who has since been remanded in prison custody by a magistrate court after he pleaded guilty to sexual harassment and breach of trust.  Rector of the polytechnic, Mukhtar Atiku Kurawa, said the committee would also investigate another lecturer Aminu Chedi who is accused of extorting money from students. Chedi is standing trial for a one count charge of collecting gratification in the course of carrying out his official duty. Kurawa of the Chemistry Department urged all staff of the Kano state Polytechnic to desist from all evil acts that may tarnish their image and reputations.