 …accuses Edo CP of becoming political tool   Obaseki: Nobody attacked Oshiomhole   T he battle for supremacy between Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, took another dimension yesterday, as the latter accused the governor of planning to dump the ruling party.   The accusation came on the heels of last Saturday’s alleged attack by some hoodlums on Oshiomhole’s residence in Benin City, Edo State capital.  The said attack has been a subject of controversy as the Edo State Government and the Commissioner of Police in the state have denied that such incident took place.   However, in a counter move, Oshiomole released a statement yesterday, alleging that the attack was part of a grand plot by Obaseki to blackmail him and set the people of the state against him.  According to APC national chairman, the governor intends to create disaffection and crisis in the state chapter of the party and probably dump it for another party ahead of next year’s governorship election in the state.  In the statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Simon Ebegbulem, and made available to newsmen, Oshiomhole accused Obaseki of being jealous of his popularity in the state, adding that he would always be at home with the people having performed creditably well as governor of the state.   The former Edo State governor alleged that Obaseki had been making frantic efforts to trail his movements any time he is in the state. He said that such moves were indications that the governor might be plotting something sinister against him.  “Talking about security, it is actually the governor who is making every effort to plunge the state into crisis and bloodshed. The last Saturday’s siege at the residence of the national chairman by his thugs was a good example.  “Before that incident, state government sponsored thugs have been harassing, intimidating APC members across the 18 local government areas because the APC leaders refused to adopt his second term aspiration. People are being sacked in their jobs everyday in the state.  “And we have it on good authority that the governor intends to create disaffection and crisis in the state APC and probably dump the party for another party. That is why he has embarked on this brigandary which Edo people will resist,” he said.   Oshiomhole charged Obaseki to stop blackmailing him and face governance, which according to him, was the reason he was elected into office.   His words: “It is sad that the governor in his usual style to blackmail the APC chairman now refers the hardworking youths of Edo State as thugs, forgetting that these same wonderful youths supported him during his election as governor.   “Right from Oshiomhole’s days in the labour movement, he has always been on the side of the people and therefore cannot abandon that to please a governor who believes he has monopoly of knowledge.”   Oshiomhole also accused the Edo State Commissioner of Police, Dan Mallam Muhammed, of becoming an easy tool in the hands of Obaseki and other desperate politicians in the state.   He expressed disappointment over the response of the commissioner of Police to the attack on his residence, describing it as an attempt at trivializing and rationalizing an incident that had serious implications for the safety of a former governor of the state.   “I don’t want to believe that the Edo State Police commissioner is gratuitously lending himself as a tool in the hands of some desperate and misguided politicians in Edo State whose pastime is to malign the reputation and public image of the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Oshiomhole.   “Apparently propelled by selfish interest, this tribe of politicians has unconscionably ensconced itself in the devious plot of feeding the people of Edo State with a misconstruction of Comrade Oshiomhole persona in order to galvanise negative public sentiments against him.  “As much as I try to refrain and restrain myself from joining issues with the Police, I feel obligated to call the commissioner out on his widely reported statement that Comrade Oshiomhole was not attacked.   “While stating a notorious fact, he had somewhat downplayed the very strong connection between Comrade Oshiomhole and his home that was attacked. Who were the thugs that laid siege to Oshiomhole’s house in the GRA with a view to attacking him?   “I want to believe that CP Muhammed is a super cop, who should not contradict himself on the facts of a matter that was writ-large and about which his men were seized of. Who, for instance, were the people that pursued the thugs who came to attack Oshiomhole, thinking that he was at home when they struck?   “Of course, they were policemen and some brave APC youths who got the information that the thugs had laid siege to the residence of Comrade Oshiomhole with a view to attacking him.    “Was it not the CP that sent his men to the place to restore law and order? If the CP had claimed there was nothing like an attack, how come he decided to beef up security around the APC national chairman’s residence?   “I even read where the Police claimed the people who went there were protesters. Are protests held in the night? The thugs laid siege to the residence of the national chairman of the ruling party at 8 p.m. My thinking is that by now the Police would be telling us about the number of arrests that they have made.     “After all, the “suspects”, purportedly pampered by the Police, had regrouped at Edo Hotel after they had escaped from the scene. Why were they not arrested by the Police at Edo Hotel?   “I know that the Edo State Government is making frantic effort to use the statement of the Police commissioner that Comrade Oshiomhole was not attacked to cover its evil plot and the shame it has brought to itself, but that effort had already fallen through in the face of a number of notorious facts,” the statement further read.   Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki has insisted that his predecessor, Oshiomhole, was never attacked in the state as being alleged and advised the APC leader to always notify the state government and security agencies any time he wished to visit Edo State.   Obaseki, who spoke through his Special Adviser on Media, Communication and Public Affairs, Crusoe Osagie, said the former governor never informed his office, Commissioner of Police or Director of the Department of State Service (DSS), when he is on a  visit to the state.   According to him, courtesy demands that Oshiomhole observes the necessary protocols, while visiting the state in order to enable the security agencies provide adequate security for him.   The governor maintained that he had no knowledge of the alleged attack on the residence of the APC national chairman, stating that the report of the State Commissioner of Police, Muhammed, should take precedence over any other report.   He called on government functionaries and political office holders to be circumspect about the issue and avoid making comments on the alleged attack against the former governor of the state.   It could be recalled that the Edo State governorship election slated for next year has pitched the state governor against the APC national chairman. There have been speculations that following the tussle between the two political gladiators over the control of the party in Edo State,  Oshiomhole wants to stop Obaseki’s re-election, an allegation the APC national chairman has persistently disclaimed.