An Ikeja Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence Court, Lagos, yesterday sentenced a 47-year-old school supervisor, Mr. Adegboyega Adenekan, to 60 years imprisonment for defiling a two-year-old pupil. Justice Sybil Nwaka convicted Adenekan on a one-count charge of defilement of a child sometime in November 2016 at Chrisland School, Victoria Garden City (VGC), Lagos. The convict was accused of having unlawful sexual intercourse with the pupil. Nwaka held that the prosecution had proven its case of defilement against the defendant beyond reasonable doubt, contrary to Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2011. She said: “The basic elements to consider in this case are that the accused had sex with the child; that there was penetration; and that the evidence of the child must be corroborated. “The victim, in her evidence before the court, said that Mr. Adenekan put his mouth and his hand in her wee-wee (vagina). She also said that the supervisor put his mouth in the vagina of her best friend, Jenita. “The little girl said that Adenekan covered her mouth when she attempted to shout. And that he (defendant) defiled her twice on the school premises; at his office and at the hallway. “This defendant is conscienceless, wicked, an animal and not fit to walk on the streets.” The judge said the evidence of the child that the defendant defiled her twice was evidently corroborated by the medical report from Mirabel Centre. She added: “I have no doubt in mind that this defendant, Adenekan is the same person the victim said put his hand in her vagina and therefore, the defendant is hereby convicted accordingly. “The defendant is hereby sentenced to 60 years imprisonment.” However, the prosecution team led by B.T. Boye had called seven witnesses and closed its case on March 14. While the defence team also called five witnesses and closed its case on June 26, 2019. The defence counsel, Richard Abdullahi, said the defence team had no alloctus on behalf of the defendant and urged the court to sentence at its discretion.