A call has gone to Nigerian students to read extensively and develop themselves in order to become useful to themselves, and make meaningful contributions to society. The call was made by the Executive Director, oil giant, Total E&P Nigeria Limited, Mr. Victor Bandele at the 2019 Book Reading and Open Day Forum for Secondary Schools in Rivers State. With the theme: “Beyond Boundaries,” he urged students to shun drugs and other forms of criminal activities for them to achieve their life goals. Bandele, who said reading books provide an opportunity to get advice, share experiences and knowledge of persons, including authors that one may never meet in ones’ life, however, noted that more often than not people may be defined by the materials they expose themselves to. He said: “If you read junk it is not healthy. We have been holding this event since 2011. We are experts at it already. We have spent a lot in this area because we feel it is a good thing. It has had a lot of impact in the lives of our children. “You meet people in books and learn from what people have said or learnt in books. And because you have learnt their ways, it will begin to affect yourself positively. That is why I reiterated on developing healthy reading habits. Honestly, if you read bad junk, there is no way you will not have traits of bad junk in your life. “If you want to be a distinguished person, start by being distinguished from what you choose to read.” Bandele recalled that the oil company introduced the programme nine years ago, to promote the ability and capacity of children to be involved in critical thinking, which is required in the world today. Meanwhile, the moderator of the question and answer session for the Junior Secondary School category, which was based on a prose fiction, Dr. Anthony Onu, a lecturer of English at the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT), however, asked the students to read, declared that “readers are leaders.” The don added: “If you stop reading you become irrelevant in any sphere of life you find yourself. The human mind is a farmland. Whatever you sow is what you reap. There is no great farmer that does not sow.” A total of 75 students in both junior and senior secondary schools from 15 selected schools participated in the event in which some students were rewarded for being outstanding in their performance and presentations. Some of the outstanding students are Daniel Owuamanem of Stella Maris College (SMC), Oyema Ugochukwu of Shilloh Hills High School and Kikpoye Ima-Enang of Seacrest International School. Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Rivers State Ministry of Education, Dagogo Adonye-Hart, who was represented by Mrs. Asimie Dandison-Brown, commended the oil firm for its consistency in sustaining the programme in the last nine years.