C ement company Lafarge Africa Plc has in a notification to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the investing public, debunked a purported investigation ordered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on its activities over alleged poor corporate governance practices and abuses.  In a statement, the General Counsel & Company Secretary, Adewumi Alode, said the cement firm was not in receipt of any letter from and SEC that would warrant the company to believe that an investigation has been launched against it.  One of the national newspapers, not New Telegraph, had reported that the apex capital market regulator had launched investigations into activities at Lafarge Africa Plc over allegations of poor corporate governance practices and abuses.  According to the report, documents obtained indicated that SEC’s investigation was sequel to a petition written by concerned shareholders of the publicly–quoted company.   Shareholders had raised several allegations of infractions and poor practices by the company, urging the SEC to act.   Shareholders called for forensic audit of Lafarge Africa to determine the propriety of acquisition of Lafarge South Africa, a subsidiary of LafargeHolcim by Lafarge Africa Plc and the subsequent sale of same Lafarge South Africa to LafargeHolcim after many years of losses that negatively impacted Lafarge Africa. LafargeHolcim is the majority core investor in Lafarge Africa.  According to the petition, there is need to ascertain the veracity of the transactions to ensure the minority shareholders were not shortchanged as corporate acquisition of such magnitude ought to have involved comprehensive due diligence to forestall the subsequent round-tripping of assets.  The forensic audit is expected to focus on the nature and independence of due diligence on the transactions, share pricing and valuations, board’s oversight functions and insider dealings, interference of the majority core investor and the current composition of the board of Lafarge Africa. petition alleged that the entire transactions on Lafarge South Africa were skewed in favour of LafargeHolcim, leaving the Nigerian minority shareholders with reduction in shareholding and avoidable losses.