…seek NCC/CBN’s intervention to recover cost  T elecommunications operators in the country may have shelved their planned implementation of new charges for Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD). The operators said they are now willing to explore “mutually beneficial solutions” to recover the cost of providing the service in the best interest of the consumers. This came as the telcos blamed banks for the current imbroglio over the proposed charges. According to them, the banks’ decision to push the USSD cost to their customers led to recent announcement of implementation and a case of double billing for banks’ customers.  According to a statement issued by the Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), following the issuance of the USSD Pricing Determination by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) which resulted in a price review of USSD service by telcos, the banks stated that they would no longer pay for USSD service delivered to their customers and requested the operators to charge customers directly for use of the USSD channel.  “This billing methodology where the banks customers are directly charged USSD access fees by our members irrespective of the service charges that the bank may subsequently apply to the customers’ bank account is called “End-User Billing” which the banks specifically demanded that all our members implement.   “The banks, however, provided no assurances to our members that such service fees charged to customers’ bank accounts for access to bank services through the USSD channel will be discontinued post implementation of end-user billing by our members,” ALTON said in the statement signed by its Chairman, Engr. Gbenga Adebayo.  Explaining the arrangement that existed between the telcos and banks before now, ALTON said: “In order to accelerate the adoption of financial services on USSD, the banks partnered with our members to zero-rate the USSD access to end-users, while the banks bore the cost for the provision of service.  “Based on this arrangement, the banks took on the responsibility of billing customers and paid our members for use of the USSD infrastructure from the service fees deducted from the customer’s bank account. These service fees charged by the banks were, however, far in excess of the costs remitted to our members by the banks for providing the USSD platform and have since remained so.”  ALTON, however, noted that “in view of the opposition to the implementation of end-user billing by customers, our members, as responsible and responsive corporate citizens are committed to safeguarding consumer interests, and in this regard, we are willing to explore mutually beneficial solutions which ensure that costs associated with the provision of USSD services as determined by the NCC are fully recovered by our members and customers are not billed twice for the same service and by different institutions which is what end-user billing advocated by the banks will entail.”  They also called on the NCC and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to, “as a matter of priority, convene a meeting of the financial and telecoms industry stakeholders to address this issue for the benefit of the consumers and other stakeholders.” Meanwhile, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of commercial banks have distanced themselves from the moves by the telecom operators to impose the USSD charges. The bank chief executives, under the aegis of Body of Bank CEOs that have the MD/CEO of Access Bank Plc., Mr. Herbert Wigwe, as chairman, said in a statement that they never asked the operators to start charging customers as contained in the text message sent by MTN.  The banks CEOs said the decision on whether, and what amount, to charge a customer for accessing USSD was entirely that of the telco company, in the same way a customer is billed for calls, SMS and data.  “The banks are determined to pursue the National Financial Inclusion Strategy of the Federal Government of Nigeria and will continue to advocate that telcos identify wholeheartedly with this laudable initiative and implement transparent and low pricing model in the use of USSD access codes,” the banks added.  Moves to begin implementation of N4.00 charge per 20 seconds session of USSD had sparked outrage among Nigerians. This prompted the Minister of Communications, Dr. Ali Pantami, to order its suspension, while the CBN Governor also condemned it.