A cross section of Nigerians who spoke on the nation’s 59th independence anniversary, said it is mixed grill for the country, TEMITOPE OGUNBANKE reports   Nigeria may never celebrate 100th anniversary – Akande Chief Bisi Akande is a former governor of Osun State and ex-interim National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) About 50 years ago, Nigeria was most enjoyable; we had freedom of what a true democracy was supposed to be, at least individually, I don’t know about the government then. But today, it appears everybody live in fear. I think the phenomenon of the country must be examined around three things. First is our education. It seems to me that Nigeria’s education is colonial. It ended only literacy without numeracy. Education of a community that is not science based can never be technologically based. And a community without technology cannot be industrial and when you are not industrial, you may end up in poverty. Secondly, I think our laws are military decree-based and military decree-based laws cannot be used to sustain democracy. As long as we remain or we use these military decree-based laws, our democracy will never prosper. Thirdly, our religions are mostly imported and because of that, we seem neither to be good Christians nor good Muslims or good ardonists. We merely live in fear and when there are problems, we have no laboratories to go, we all retire to churches and mosques for vigils. A country that remains like this may celebrate 60th anniversary of independence, but may never celebrate 100th anniversary. I think until all these three are looked at and addressed, or let me use the word, restructured. All these ethnic restructuring, political restructuring and so on, I believe in them, but they are not difficult to restructure like the three I told you. Independence anniversary calls for reflection – Sani Anthony Sani is the General Secretary of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) Fifty-nine anniversary celebration of our independence is just another celebration of our independence. There is nothing exotic about that, but it is good we celebrate our independence in order to take stock of the progress we have made so far and remind ourselves that we are now responsible for our destiny as an independent nation. We should note our achievements, shortcomings as well as where we have gone wrong in our leadership style and management practices with a view to improving on our performances. In doing so, we must not look at only the mountains, but also look at the sea. This is because situations and challenges differ from country to country. As a result, approaches for overcoming them must necessarily differ. That is why it is often said that examination papers for different countries are never the same. In as much as our socio-economic development status is behind those of our peers, we cannot be satisfied with our pace of performances and efforts. But, if we compare our socio-economic status at independence like universities, schools, health institutions, level of energy and power as well as number of states that includes Federal Capital Territory (FCT) with what obtains at 59th independence anniversary, we can hardly avoid the conclusion that the nation has moved on, however, at a slow pace. Such observations should suggest we count our blessings one-by-one and resolve to do more now that multi-party democracy with its freedom is taking root and freeing individual capacities for performance. That should spur us to gird our loin and increase the quality of our vision and the efforts to attain them. And in doing so, we must be realistic about available resources to the nation and limiting factors. Our independence is worth celebrating because freedom alone is a value that is worth celebrating. We must not forget the truism that all the good things of life like order, justice, liberty, common decency and prosperity are never natural order of things, but attained through ceaseless hard work by not only leaders, but by the led as well. As the challenges arise, leaders are expected to bring the people together to unleash their synergy against such collective challenges for common good. That is why there is in mechanism of community living; to work hard and overcome challenges as they arise. While I agree that our expectations from independence have not been met due to failure of leadership and collapse of our national ideals and moral values, we cannot conclude that independence is not worth celebrating. The freedom that comes with multi-party democracy alone is worth celebrating. We have made efforts at improvement of our socio-economic development through several restructuring of the country by geography, through politics, economics and even forms of governments. That the efforts have not met our expectations at the desired pace does not suggest no efforts have been made and that no achievements have been recorded. The celebration will make us know that when the growth in population exceeds that of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the economy cannot sustain it. That is where we are today. For example, our population and that of Britain were at par at independence, but today, that of Britain is not more than 65 million, while Nigeria bandies a figure of 180 million. The independence anniversary celebration should also remind Nigerians of the damage done by corruption to the country and make the masses assess progress against plans in the war against corruption, assess the fight against insecurity and the effort in diversification of the economy away from over dependence on oil and the resolve to do more. My message to Nigerians is that the 59th independence anniversary is worth celebrating and that Nigerians must not only look at the mountain, but also look at the sea and count their blessings one-by-one with a resolve to come together and unleash their synergy against challenges as they arise. And since the challenges have largely been inherited by the government, which has promised to remove or reduce the sand bags on the path of socio-economic development, and which mandate has just been renewed as signs of confidence on the government, the people are expected to come together and support the regime to deliver on the promise of its mandate until the next round of elections when politicians will go back to the trenches in line with the practice of multi-party democracy. Okei-Odumakin: We’re still far from the Eldorado Dr Joe Okei-odumakin is the President of Women Arise and Centre for Change Nigeria at 59 is a long walk, but the reality gazing boldly at us in the eyes points to the fact that we are still far from the Eldorado of the comity of developed nations. We got our independence on a very solid foundation of development vision, plan and strategy, but that foundation was struck into an abyss by the adoption of a unitary system of government with the concentration of power at the center of governance or at the federal level. Experience they say is the best teacher! It is evident that we can’t sustain the subsisting presidential system of government. So, we must endeavour to revert to the regional system of governance that we launched our independence upon. While we must appreciate the goodness of God upon this country as we are endowed with numerous human and mineral resources, we have not justified the efficient development, management and utilisation of these resources for the advancement of humanity as being practiced by developed nations of the world that are not as naturally blessed as Nigeria. Ravenousness and self-centeredness have eaten deep into our moral fabrics. No genuine patriot will be satisfied with the present state of our country in comparison with the pedestal of our founding fathers as a sovereign nation under God. We missed it as a people when we lost our broad sense of nationalism. We have not allowed each region to develop at its own pace with its distinctive spectrum and agenda, thereby coaxing our unique and various belief systems into our national limelight against the interest of ethnicity. There is no ethnic group that is superior to the other under a sovereign nation. We are aware that there is an executive bill that is being transmitted to the National Assembly that empowers the Federal Government as the rightful owner of all seas, water fronts and riverbanks without recourse to the initial settlers of those places. Assent to such bill by the legislative arm of government would imply an automatic approval of open grazing law that met brick-wall from Nigerians of other regions outside the nomadic practicing regions. Nigeria should return to regional government – Obioha Chief Ralph Obioha is a Second Republic member of the House of Representatives and chieftain of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) Every National Day in any nation should be a day of both celebration and reflection. Fifty-nine years ago, Nigerians joyously put on their best dresses to celebrate our independence from the colonial masters. It was a landmark event. No people who are held by another power that would not express happiness, when they break the yoke of such superintendence. A lot of Nigerians who observed then and now have a mixture of both nostalgia of what happened then and a regret of what has become of the nation. But to get a clinical assessment; one must also look at a passage of hands. In 1960, we had only four governments in Nigeria; the federal and three regional governments. Today we have 37 governments – the Federal Government and 36 states government. It is a big difference. It was done with a concept of fastening the progress and development in the various sectors of Nigeria and that noble and progressive idea seems now to be a heavy weight on Nigeria resources in terms of multiplying the cost of running these structures of 37 governments. It is obvious that it has now put a heavy strain. A nation is a unit of one and to believe that one sector could have developed the other would again be creating a problem that may definitely rear up in future. We should have a nation where the essence is for us to look out for the best and a structured system that has a policy that can accommodate everybody. Power is concentrated at the centre, while poor planning and execution of policies have affected the people, who are the true builders of a nation. Nation building is not necessarily restricted to government officials; the engine of nation building emanates from the activities of the greater public participation. The problem we have in Nigeria is the expansion of governance and apparatus of governance. So, we have to look back to see how regional government worked in the past and for goodness sake, see if we can return to it. Akiyode-Afolabi: We need a Nigeria that we can be proud of Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi is the Chairperson of Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) and Executive Director of Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) The present state of the country falls below expectations; Nigeria has become the poverty capital of the world. The state of our growth and development dwindles; the nation’s economy is not much to be desired if compared with other countries of comparable experience and post-independence years. No doubt, we have managed our diversity better than how we started as well as sustained our nascent democracy, but there still remains a lot left undone. We should have been better off. The founding fathers desired much for us; other vices like military incursion and mismanagement of our resources by civilians have affected our country’s growth and development. At 59, the state of violence, insecurity, poverty and inequality question our governance experience and whether there is a constitutional democracy. So, the 59th independence anniversary celebration provides opportunities for us to reflect and determine the Nigeria we want. Every strata of the society must define the Nigeria we want to see and see ourselves as actors in the battle for the soul of the country. We all need to contribute to the culture and social norms shift that can change the situation of the country. If we fail to contribute our quota, we will all be held accountable for failure to act or speak when it’s needed most. There are conversations for restructuring, but I think what is most important is to address the diversity we have and turn it around to positive actions and inclusion. Our economic system has failed us; we need a system with a people’s face. We should not focus on profits alone but how the economy reaches the mass of the people. We have a society that supports a class of the people and leave the others behind; economy that is not responsive cannot guarantee growth. We will continue to insist on an anti-corruption fight that is not one sided or political. We should insist on a government that is transparent and accountable. I believe we need a review of our electoral system; our sincerity in election process can quicken our steps towards having the right people in positions of authority. We need a Nigeria that we can all be proud of. Expectations have become unrealistic – Obatungashe Deacon Adebayo Obatungashe is the Deputy President, Campaign for Democracy (CD) Fifty-nine years after our independence, Nigeria is in a debilitated state. The vision and expectations of Nigerians for a better and secured future has become unrealistic and blighted. Exacerbating this is the perception of the Nigerians that leaders and operators of our democracy, and successive military governments that took over the leadership after independence have been insensitive in addressing fundamental issues affecting the country such as equal distribution of our common wealth, alleviation of poverty, socio-infrastructural development, power generation, security, ethnic military and insurgency. It is out of mere exaggeration to say that the country has been pushed to the verge of stupor; its foundation continues to vibrate daily with spectacles of woe. Fifty-nine years after independence with fifteen rulers at various times, an air of anxiety and uncertainty continues to pervade Nigerian society. Inspire of huge sacrifice made by poor and less privileged Nigerians, our leaders at various times appreciated us with authoritarianism, which manifested itself through myopic and visionless leadership characterised by flagrant disobedience to the rule of law, unabated violation of civil rights, intimidation and promotion of anarchy. The language of the present administration in the country is militaristic; it is in contrast to a democratic culture. While many people blame the state of country to the long rule by the military, I will simply relate it to lack of vision and lack of patriotic spirit in our elected and appointed leaders. Many of them emerged through dubious processes; they are stone hearted and always take delight seeing poor Nigerians groaning in poverty. For Nigeria to be free as we march forward and grow in age, operators of our democracy must advance democracy in a way that is dynamic and sustainable. Peoples’ expectations must be met and dividends of democracy must be delivered to all irrespective of ethnic and political lineage. We’ve refused to build a nation – Banjo Lanre Banjo is former governorship candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP) in Ogun State An independent country is a country that appreciates talents her citizens are endowed with and explore those talents to make her great. It is not a country whose founding fathers struggled to chase away imperialists, and the successors are jointly selling themselves back not only to the Europeans, but other Caucasian and Asians. An independent country is not a country that its citizens excel abroad and we will only commend and not make home conducive for them to do the same thing. As someone who are older than Nigeria’s independence and knew Nigeria when it was a source of pride, I am sad at our total dependence on foreign countries. We worry more about foreign investments than empowering Nigerians to be investors. What are we celebrating? That almost 60 years after independence, we have refused to build a nation where all of us will see ourselves as Nigerians, will be equal in the eyes of the law and will be given opportunities to develop the country. Are we celebrating the watering of disunity? We see our brethren North of the Niger flaunt power in our presence with the entire security establishment headed by them for their benefits. Citizens from Niger, Chad, and Burkina Faso can flood Nigeria through North and vote. The ones from the South act like crabs in the basket with no values, principles and vision. Our frustrated and conquered citizens are looking for escape route and our youths are hopeless. Selfish interest murder development and I keep asking: When are we going to get there? We should all take the bull by horn and stop taking pittance for votes. We must be ready for a revolution to take ourselves out from the claws of bad leadership. We must love ourselves, respect and encourage brains among us rather than worshipping moneybags. Nigeria must be placed on tripod of unity, prosperity, justice – Erubami Comrade Mashood Erubami is the President, Nigeria Voters Assembly (VOTAS) It must be said loud and clear that the citizens truthful assessment of Nigeria’s 59 years of independence should be that of mixed feelings, happiness and regrets. Happiness in the sense that the country seems to be rising from its crawling status into adulthood of nationhood despite its bags of insecurity, economic downturns and growing habits of corruption in the public service and political terrains, Nigeria is still a country that is being reckoned with in Africa and the World. As for the regrets, they stem from the fact that the country, in 59 years, is yet to be properly placed on the tripod of unity, prosperity and justice. The expectations of the forefathers for a country bound in freedom, peace and unity and where the labour of its heroes past shall not be in vain is yet to be achieved. Sincerely, I am not happy that Nigeria at 59 is still crawling like a physically challenged baby. I had expected that Nigeria would have put its act together, utilise its heavily endowed human and material resources under the sea and on the land to make life better for its citizenry; give them better and qualitative education, sound health, good physical infrastructures, clean up the degraded environment in the Niger Delta, construct good durable roads across the country, build modern railways and procure modern buses to convey commuters to and fro works and pay its workers the best wages. The hope for these can only be placed on the recent government of President Muhammadu Buhari, all things being equal.  So, my message to Nigerians is not to despair; there is hope for a better tomorrow. I believe that Nigeria will still be great. All that we need to do is to join the train of the progressive movement for change, failure that Nigeria may relapse into the hands of those who in the past 21 years misdirected the affairs of the nation and ruined its economy through cluelessness and political indiscretion. I strongly believe Nigeria will still work and be great if the current workings of government are faithfully support by all to resolve the current challenges and remain patient to heal where it is hurting. It has become imperative for Nigerians regardless of what people with other hidden agenda are spreading against the current ruling party, to support the Next Level Agenda of President Buhari, which carry prosperity programmes that would lift millions of Nigeria out of poverty and hunger. I want to also call on Nigerians to turn themselves into strong vanguards against corruption and assume their historical responsibilities of giving support for the change and next level mantras for good governance that will move Nigeria from poverty to prosperity. The people in government, on their part, must acquire a new capacity to re-fix Nigeria and transform it into a truly developed economy that will be the first in Africa.