 F ederal Government is considering ring-fencing the extra funds from the recent increase in its value-added tax rates to fund education and health. It is hoped that the effort will make the VAT increase more acceptable to taxpayers. Minister of Finance and Budget Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, disclosed this in an interview on Friday with Bloomberg at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank annual meetings in Washington DC, United States of America. This came on the heel of the Minister’s disclosure that the Federal Government’s infrastructure master plan requires as much as $3 trillion over 30 years to bridge the infrastructure deficit in the country. “To achieve this, we need fiscal sufficiency, we need buoyancy, which must come through domestic revenues, for it to be sustainable,” she said. She said putting the extra taxes aside for a specific purpose could help address some of the dissatisfaction about the increase. “We thought doing the ring-fencing will give people comfort and assurance, and enable a closer scrutiny on how that VAT increase is used.” Africa’s largest oil producer is struggling to boost revenue and the tax base. The government had only collected 58 per cent of the 2019 revenue target as of June, President Muhammadu Buhari said earlier this month. This was due to shortfalls in both oil and non-oil earnings with the government takings from crude sales 49 per cent below target. Nigeria has missed annual earnings projections every year since 2016, according to the budget office. Nearly 60 per cent of Nigerians don’t pay taxes, a survey of 10,000 adults carried out in 2018 by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group showed. Hajia Ahmed said: “A government is run by taxes, not by revenue from natural resources like oil and gas”.  “Over time our people have gotten used to not being pushed to pay taxes, so any move you make to improve the enforcement, to increase rate, will always meet with resistance.” According to Bloomberg analysis, Nigeria’s VAT rate is low compared to many of its peers in the region. The proposed new levy of 7.5 percent will still only be half of what it is in South Africa. The ratio of VAT to gross domestic product is only 0.8 per cent. “It is time for this to be done. But that’s not to say we will slow down on the effort to expand the tax base. “The budget office recently announced a proposal to raise the value-added tax rate to 7.5 per cent from 5 per cent as part of efforts to boost revenue. While this may have some impact on inflation, it won’t be significant and will moderate after some time, Ahmed said.