Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) yesterday commended Governor Seyi Makinde on his free education policy in the State, saying that it was in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s plan.  According to the Chief Press Secretary to Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, both Osinbajo and Makinde were guests of the Presiding Bishop of the Victory International Church, Bishop Taiwo Victor Adelakun, at the 30th Anniversary of the Church/ Divine Proclamation Service for Dominion University, held at the Rehoboth Cathedral, Ibadan.  Osinbajo maintained that he was happy that Governor Makinde has taken up the challenge of providing free qualitative education in Oyo State, saying that though President Muhammadu Buhari, on June 20, 2019, declared that education would be free across the country for the first nine years covering primary to junior secondary school, the Federal Government could not force the States to key into that declaration He promised that the Federal Government would work with the states to deliver free qualitative education, saying: “We will support them in whatever way we can to ensure that they achieve the objectives of free and compulsory education.”  In his address at the occasion, Governor Makinde maintained that his administration would make the necessary investments on education without caring about who will take the credit down the line, adding that his administration would lay the right foundations for the free education policy to thrive.  Governor Makinde congratulated Bishop Adelakun, asserting that the proclamation of the Dominion University would be the beginning of the journey that would produce the kind of leaders that Nigerians want.  The Governor said: “Truly, we understand the fact that four years is not enough for us to really get to where we are going but four years is enough to lay the solid foundation upon which successive administrations will build upon. “Of course, some of our leaders will tell you that at their own time in school during the time of Papa Obafemi Awolowo, they got free education. Papa has been long gone but we still see the impact today and that is what education, as one of the pillars that this administration is resting on, is all about in Oyo State. We will make all the necessary investments and won’t care who takes the credit”, Makinde said.