 The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja yesterday admitted the convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, to bail in the sum of N100 million, with two sureties in like sum. The court also ordered Sowore to deposit the sum of N50m in the account of the court as security. The court equally admitted Bakare to bail in the sum of N50 million with one surety in like sum. In granting the defendants bail, the trial judge, Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu also barred them from addressing any rally pending the conclusion of their trial. The court barred Sowore from travelling out of Abuja and the second defendant out of Osogbo, during the trial. The court further held that sureties who must be resident in Abuja must also have landed assets worth the bail sum in Abuja, and they are to deposit the original title documents of the assets with the court. The court also directed the sureties to submit their three years tax clearance certificates to the court. The judge ordered that the defendants be remanded in the custody of the Department of State Service (DSS), pending when he would meet the bail conditions. He later adjourned till November 6, 7 and 8 for trial. The Federal Government had on Monday arraigned Sowore alongside Olawale Bakare on a seven- count criminal charge bordering on treason, cybercrime and money laundering. Reacting, the counsel to the defendants, Femi Falana (SAN), has, however, described the bail conditions as stringent but promised to work towards perfecting it. Arguing on the bail application earlier, Falana had urged the court to grant bail to the defendants on liberal terms. He submitted that the charges of treasonable felony instituted against his defendants were baseless, as tagging their protest “revolution” was not an offence in Nigeria. He also argued President Muhammadu Buhari had in the past called for a violent revolution like the one that took place in Egypt and was not arrested or prosecuted. He said: “In the entire gamut of the submission of the complainant, the allegation is that the first defendant (Sowore) was going to overthrow the government of Nigeria through protests. “He was not even accused of training people in Ghana like Chief Obafemi Awolowo when he was charged with treasonable felony. In this case, no training, no contact with any soldier. “We have shown that leaders of the ruling party (the All Progressives Congress) have been calling for a revolution. “In 2011, Mr. President called for revolution like the violent Egyptian revolution. In this case, the first defendant warned that nobody should engage in violence, ‘we are protesting peacefully.’ “We submit with profound respect that the use of the word ‘revolution’ has not been criminalised in Nigeria. When President Buhari called for revolution, he was never arrested or prosecuted.” But in opposing the bail, the prosecuting counsel, Hassan Liman (SAN), urged the judge to disregard the arguments by Falana on the grounds that they were not relevant to the bail application.