Police yesterday paraded two suspects, Iliyasu Ibrahim and Sukni Zakka, for impersonating the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed Abdulakadir. The two men were paraded alongside 47 other suspects, who allegedly committed various offenses ranging from kidnapping and banditry to car and cable theft. The state Commissioner of Police, Habu Sani, who paraded the suspects at the Police Command Headquarters, said the impersonators were arrested in Bauchi and had their house in the state capital. Sani said the suspects had also defrauded innocent members of the public N37 million in the name of payment for 2019 Hajj pilgrimage. He said: “One of the suspects, Sukni Zakka, acted as the personal assistant (PA) to the governor while the other, Iliyasu Ibrahim alias Du, acted as the governor during phone conversation. “The impostor PA usually lures his unsuspecting victims and defrauds them by putting a call to the impostor governor who in return answers the call and assures them of Hajj slots.” The commissioner said that 185 suspects were arrested, but 138 were charged to court while 47 were still in police custody undergoing investigation. Sani said that during the operations, the police also recovered four AK47 rifles, one pistol, one locally-made sub-machine gun and 17 assorted firearms and 65 live ammunition. Others included five cartridges, six pellets, 42 machetes, four vehicles, eight motorcycles, one tricycle  (Keke NAPEP), 45,000 litres of petroleum products, 9,000 metres of aluminium conductors valued at about N3.5 million and 26 international passports. Also recovered were application forms into the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), bunch of assorted charms, 152 pieces of 100 notes of counterfeit US Dollars and 43 pieces of 1000 & 500 counterfeit Naira notes. Others were two laptops, 38 handsets, large quantities of harvested weeds suspected to be Indian hemp, 208 cows and 21 sheep. Sani said the command appreciated the members of the public for their support and cooperation in the ongoing fight against crime and criminality in the state. He said: “The command wishes to assure the general public that it will not relent in performing its statutory responsibility of protection of lives and property of all citizens, as it appeals for more useful information that will lead to achieving its onerous task in the maintenance of peace in Bauchi State.”