The $62 billion (N10.32 trillion) oil revenues allegedly underpaid by the international oil companies (IOCs) to the Federal Government coffers can fund Nigeria’s budget for two years. Adeola Yusuf reports   The relationship between the Federal Government and International Oil Companies (IOCs) operating in the Nigeria’s deep water production space hit a new low last Wednesday. The business tie between the duo was rocked by a fresh bickering over allegation of $62 billion (n10.32 trillion) oil revenues underpayment. Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude exporter is cash trapped and it, would not tolerate what it termed a “short-change” from the operators in its oil sector. Speaking through the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, the government declared that there is no limit to what it could do in terms of engagement and settlement in pursuit of the $62 billion oil revenues allegedly underpaid by Shell, Chevron, ExxonMobil and two other oil supermajors. The country is seeking recovery of $62 billion from the oil companies including Total and Eni using a 2018 Supreme Court ruling, which it says enables it to increase its share of income from production-sharing contracts (PSCs). Though the allegation has since been rebuffed by some of the companies, the money in question is N22.320 trillion if converted to Nigeria currency, and it is, if established, enough to fund the country’s budget for two years, thus, it should be thoroughly followed. The deal and its controversy ` Stating that Nigeria had been “short-changed” under the law by the companies, Malami said in a telephone interview according to Reuters on Thursday, that the regulations allow the government to revisit revenue-sharing deals on petroleum sales if crude prices exceed $20 a barrel. The government was pursuing a case for recovery if it was established that the oil companies had under-paid the government, he said. “Computing the amount that should be credited to the Nigerian government if the law was effectively applied, that translates to around $62 billion against the IOCs (international oil companies),” the Attorney-General said. He continued; “All options are on the table and there is no limit to what we can do in terms of engagement, in terms of settlement, if the need arises.” Though Malami declined to name the oil companies involved in the matter, industry and government sources declared, according to Reuters that Royal Dutch Shell, Chevron, Exxon Mobil and Eni, were earlier asked to pay the central government between $2.5 billion and $5 billion each. A sector with transparency issues The oil sector, aside from this fresh $62 billion underpayment allegation, has myriads of issues that bother on lack of transparency. Just last Thursday, the Federal Government reconfirmed that Nigeria is yet to know the actual volume of fuel imports and consumption as it inaugurated a team of 89 persons drawn from five key agencies to, among other things, authenticate the actual volume of products imported and consumed in the country. Minister of Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, who inaugurated the initiative code-named ‘Operation White’ in Abuja, according to a statement, maintained that the team is to also ensure transparency and accountability in the distribution of petroleum products across the country. Speaking at a brief ceremony held at the NNPC Towers Thursday, Sylva who earlier visited the team’s Command and Control Centre at the NNPC Towers, observed that the initiative was long overdue for the country, even as he charged members of the team to carry out the assignment with commitment, zeal and patriotism. The tough budget ahead Nigeria, all things being equal, has outlined N10.729 trillion for its 2020 budget based on expectations of higher oil prices. The has set out to produce no less of 2.18 million barrels of crude oil daily in the entire 365 days of year 2020. The country also expects that the product will not sell below $57 per barrel. All these are contained in the latest document from the National Assembly, a legislative arm that, due to its statutory role, felt that the about 9 trillion earlier proposed by President Muhammadu Buhari for the 2020 budget was not enough. The budget, to the legislators deserved to be jerked and exactly that is what it did. The legislature penultimate Thursday, October 3, 2019, increased the value of the country’s 2020 budget outline to N10.729 trillion based on expectations of higher oil prices. The legislature passed a medium-term expenditure framework that increased the anticipated oil price to $57 per barrel from a previous $55 per barrel. That pushed the budget up from N10.002 trillion naira. The finance minister had previously revised the expected oil price down from $60 per barrel to cushion against supply shocks. The framework passed on Thursday also pegged oil production at 2.18 million barrels per day (bpd). While Nigeria is currently producing at roughly that level, it had pledged to cut it meet an OPEC cap on crude oil of 1.685 million bpd. The document is a plan Nigeria uses to prepare its annual budget. The finance minister submits the framework to the legislature, which must then approve it. President Muhammadu Buhari has presented a finalised budget proposal to the legislature last Tuesday, October 8, 2019, and the move to ensure funding for the budget has begun in earnest. For Nigeria to realise this target, it must unfailing on daily basis be producing 1.8 million barrels and the oil must sell at $57per barrel or above that benchmark. Unfortunately for Nigeria, it cannot solely determine oil price. The stability enjoyed by the country in production is also determined by the relative peace in the Nigeria Delta. Asides this, the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) also helps in determining what volume of crude is profitable to produce and sell to the global market. The inability of the country to determine all these, rolled into one, will put it under intense pressure on the increase of the revenues for the budget to N10.729 trillion. With a resolution to the alleged $62 billion (N22. 32 trillion) trapped through underpayment, the country could fund its budget conveniently for two years. The plan for recovery In the latest plan, the government argued that the energy companies failed to comply with a 1993 contract-law requirement that the state receive a greater share of revenue when the oil price exceeds $20 per barrel, according to a document collectively prepared by the attorney-general’s office, and the Justice Ministry. Oil prices rose to more than $100 a barrel in 2014 before a sharp drop that triggered a 2016 recession in Nigeria, leaving the government struggling to fund its budgets. President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday presented a record 10.33 trillion naira ($33.8 billion) budget for 2020 to lawmakers. He has repeatedly rolled out record spending plans but struggled to fund them due to lower oil output and an inability to boost non-oil exports. Under the production-sharing contract law, companies including Royal Dutch Shell Plc, ExxonMobil Corp., Chevron Corp., Total SA and Eni SpA agreed to fund the exploration and production of deep-offshore oil fields on the basis that they would share profit with the government after recovering their costs. When the law came into effect 26 years ago, crude was selling for $9.50 per barrel. The oil companies currently take 80per cent of the profit from these deep-offshore fields, while the government receives 20per cent, according to the document. Oil traded at $58.29 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe Exchange. Most of Nigeria’s crude is pumped by the five oil companies, which operate joint ventures and partnerships with the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. Representatives of the oil companies met Justice Minister Abubakar Malami Oct. 3 in Abuja, according to two people familiar with the discussions who asked not to be identified because the meeting wasn’t public. Talking tough Malami reportedly told them that while no hostility is intended toward investors, the government would ensure that all the country’s laws are respected, the people said. Oil companies including Shell have gone to the Federal High Court to challenge the government’s claim that they owe the state any money, arguing that the Supreme Court ruling doesn’t allow the government to collect arrears. They also contend that because the companies weren’t party to the 2018 case, they shouldn’t be subject to the ruling. “We do not agree with the legal basis for the claim that we owe outstanding revenues,” Bloomberg quoted Shell’s Nigerian unit to have said in an emailed response to questions. IOC’s reactions and legal foundation Chevron spokesman Ray Fohr said the company doesn’t comment on matters before the court. Its units in Nigeria “comply with all applicable laws and regulations,” he said by email. Exxon and Total declined to comment, while Eni officials didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. The Supreme Court ruling followed a lawsuit by states in Nigeria’s oil-producing region seeking interpretation of the nation’s production-sharing law. The states argued that they weren’t receiving their full due. The court ruled in their favor and asked the attorney general and justice minister to take steps to recover the outstanding revenue. The 1993 law required that its provisions be reviewed after 15 years and subsequently every five years. The attorney-general’s office insists that the provision for a higher share of revenue doesn’t require legislative action to take effect, according to the document. “Instead it imposes a duty on the oil companies and contracting parties, being NNPC, to by themselves review the sharing formula,” the ministry said. Last line The government is expected to have done its home work very well before coming up with the allegation. The $62 billion translating to N22.32 trillion in contention is a lot of money, and it should be meticulously followed and recovered. The IOCs, on the other hand, should put up a good defense to clear the air on the allegation and they have a lot of stakes in ensuring that transparency and accountability are enshrined in the country’s oil industry.