T he three leading ethnic groups in Benue State yesterday vowed not to withdraw the court case filed against Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore bothering on the killing of innocent people until the Federal Government resettles internally displaced persons (IDPs) of militant herders’ attack. This was part of the resolve of the supreme council of the ethnic leaders at a news briefing in Makurdi, the Benue State capital. National Secretary of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Alhassan Saleh, had apologised to Governor Samuel Ortom, over herdsmen attacks and killing of innocent citizens of the state.  Saleh during the reconciliation meeting expressed regret over the Benue killings and pledged to ensure peaceful coexistence between herdsmen and farmers, moving forward. But leaders of the ethnic groups, Chief Edward Ujege, President-General, Mzough-u-Tiv, accompanied by Ochetoha K’Idoma, Amali Amali and that of Omi Ny’ Igede, Benjamin Okpa; said the apology does translate to withdrawal of the court case against the herders’ group. Ujege reiterated the resolve of the group to continue to press hard on the Federal Government to expedite action on the safe return of IDPs to their homes.  “We appreciate the governor’s meeting with the Secretary-General, Miyetti Allah, because in like manner, South Africa had a truth and reconciliation commission after a horrible apartheid experience. “We shall, however, continue in our efforts without relenting on resettlement of IDPs, the court cases against the Miyetti Allah and the Federal Government until we get justice.  “The damages visited on our people, who are still languishing in terrible internally displaced camps without schools for their children, means of daily feeding of their families, all go to show the devastating effects the wicked have visited on Benue State.” Ujege commended Governor Ortom for ensuring the return of peace in the Benue Valley, describing it as wonderful, selfless and a brave job for the people of the state. “To us who worked with him, we consider him a hero who sacrificed his safety and wellbeing for the service of Benue people when many others were afraid of the Federal Government to speak out and stand firm and for coming about with the Open Grazing Prohibition and Establishment of Ranches Law 2017.” He said the sustained attacks on Benue communities had ruined the economy of the state, but expressed optimism that with God, the people would survive the hardship.