N ational Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, said though the Supreme Court has dismissed the petition of the party and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, challenging the election of President Muhammadu Buhari, the final judgement comes from God. The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) also said the apex court has betrayed the nation “with the hurried affirmation of Buhari’s election.”  Secondus, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ike Abonyi, however commended Nigerians for their commitment and support to the party and to democracy. He said that the commitment of Nigerians to democracy and its tenets, despite inhibiting factors, is worthy of emulation and highly commendable.  “We thank you for your support for PDP, for your commitment to democracy. “Nigerians know that you voted PDP, even APC knows that you rejected them on February 23, 2019, international community knows you voted for PDP. “If Supreme Court of seven justices says otherwise, leave it to God, the ultimate judge,” Secondus stated.  He also commended the media for their commitment to democracy and good governance in Nigeria and urged them not to relent in their roles of holding politicians accountable to the people. Secondus, however, charged Nigerians to remain resolute in their prayers to God, lamenting that “the country is in such an untidy state that only God can bail her out.” On its part, PDP expressed shock at the judgement of the Supreme. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, stated that it presented a solid case, with indisputable evidence, showing that Atiku won the presidential election and expressed surprise that the justices of the Supreme Court held otherwise. “However, that is the highest court of the land. “Notwithstanding, the distinction of our case remains for Nigerians, including generations yet unborn, to appreciate,” PDP noted. The party added that the judgement was not what majority of Nigerians who participated and observed the presidential election expected, including even members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It expressed gratitude to millions of Nigerians across board for voting Atiku in the election as well as for their unflinching support for PDP during the election and throughout the duration of court proceedings. “Nevertheless, our party, indeed the nation, awaits the justices of the Supreme Court to release the reasons behind their verdict,” the statement added. On his part, the vice presidential candidate of PDP in the February 23 election, Mr. Peter Obi, has expressed concern over the effect of the Supreme Court judgement on the Nigerian society. Obi said that the issue really was not about the parties or the candidates but about the society “and what we are bequeathing to our children.” He said that PDP and Atiku approached the court after the election because they were sufficiently convinced that the result declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did not reflect the vote cast by majority of Nigerians. “The issue here is not about the candidates or the party, it is about democracy and our society,” he said. Obi commended Nigerians for their commitment to PDP and democracy and urged them not to relent. He also commended the legal team for their efforts that would “undoubtedly enrich the nation’s jurisprudence.” CUPP, in a statement by the spokesperson, Ikenga Ugochinyere, said “the Supreme Court have murdered the hope of Nigerians for a better life.”