Following sack of no fewer than five members of staff of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) and the recent dismissal of eight staffers of the Lagos State University (LASU), a coalition of civil societies in Lagos State have staged a mass protest against what they described as growing culture of harassment, dismissal and termination of appointments of leadership of workers’ unions across the tertiary institutions in the state. This was as they urged the Governor Babajide Sanwo-led administration and the state House of Assembly to urgently intervene in the matter by calling the management of the institutions to order. LASPOTECH had on Tuesday announced dismissal of the five members of staff by the Governing Council at its meeting of Friday, September 20, after due processes as contained in the Staff Conditions of Service had been exhausted. A statement by the Deputy Registrar, Information and Public Relations, Olanrewaju Kuye, noted that the affected staff were dismissed for offences ranging from plagiarism, falsification of students examination results, fraudulently employment without pre-requisite qualifications, breach of confidentiality, assault and battery, among others. However, the groups, which protested yesterday at the House of Assembly complex, comprised the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), Alliance for Nigerian Students Against Neo-Liberal Attacks (ANSA), and the United Action for Democracy (UAD), among others. The group, however, demanded among other things the reinstatement of members of staff sacked at the institutions, as well as the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Ijanikin. Executive Director of Workbond International Network (WIN), Omotaje Olawale, who spoke on behalf of the coalition at the protest, tagged: “Save Tertiary Education Rally,” however, said that there was an urgent need for the governor to intervene in order to save the tertiary institutions from the grip of their management. He said there was a total breakdown of law and order, and degeneracy of facilities across the institutions, condemning the illegal dismissal of five members of staff from LASPOTECH, eight lecturers from LASU and 37 from AOCOED. “There are acute and seemingly intractable crises on the campuses as our academic institutions are currently being turned into barracks. They are gradually becoming graveyards for both lecturers and students,” he said.