Bayelsa Assembly: Politics of Isenah’s impeachment  PAULINE ONYIBE reports on the power play that characterised recent impeachment of the Speaker of Bayelsa State Assembly, Hon. Tonye Isenah   I mpeachment of speakers, which has been a common occurrence in Bayelsa State House of Assembly since 1999, played out again on September 30, when Hon. Tonye Isenah joined the growing list of presiding officers of the state legislative house to be relieved of their position.  Since the country’s return to democratic rule in 1999, the 23-year old state has witnessed series of impeachments of speakers of its legislature. From the first to the sixth Assembly, it has been gale of impeachments of speakers. Among speakers of the state Assembly, who were ousted within the period include Heineken Lokpobiri, Boyelayefa Debekeme, Peremobowei Ebebi, Friday Kombowei Benson and now Isenah, who did not spend up to six months in office. No doubt, political drama has always surrounded such impeachments. For instance, Lokpobiri was sacked over what his colleagues then termed as “his growing influence,” while Boyelayefa Debekeme was removed because he opposed the impeachment of then Governor Diepriye Alamieyeseigha.   However, the recent ouster of Isenah assumed a frightening dimension as gunshots, not only rocked the Assembly Complex the day he was impeached, but his removal caused pandemonium across the state. And for Isenah, that day will ever remain green in his heart. It was like every other day as he had announced to the Assembly staff on Friday September 27 that he was going to resign as speaker of the Sixth Assembly the following Monday morning. He had sat at the hallowed chamber, where he presided plenary according to a video that leaked afterwards because journalists were chased out of the hallowed chamber that morning. The video showed that there was a sitting contrary to a report that there was no sitting before the second sitting, at which he was impeached.   But immediately he finished addressing his colleagues, he hit the gavel three times and adjourned the house sine die without any motion or any seconder of the motion, an action which generated controversy in the chamber. What ensued shortly were gunshots immediately the sergeant-at-arm escorted him out of the chambers. Isenah, however, hurriedly left the arena with the mace with the help of some of his supporters. But people wondered why he refused to step down after announcing to that he was going to resign on September 30.  Information had it that he was persuaded by his constituents not to resign even when it was alleged that he had a nocturnal meeting with the Restoration Caucus of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, where it was agreed that he should step down immediately Senator Douye Diri emerges as the party’s flag bearer for the November 16 governorship election as they are from the same senatorial district and local government.   The essence of the arrangement, according to political observers in the state was to pave the way for the incumbent governor, Seriake Dickson, to anoint his successor and in turn, remain relevant in the state’s politics after leaving office though he must, first, scale the hurdle posed by the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC), David Lyon, who is backed by a former governor of the state and current Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva.   Interestingly, Lyon is from the same Southern Ijaw, the local government of the current Speaker of the state Assembly, Monday Obolo, who Governor believes can checkmate the APC in that area.   Reacting to his impeachment, Isenah said anything done in the House without him will not hold water.   His words: “I presided over the sitting this morning and I didn’t preside as an impeached or a speaker that resigned. Anything that happens there without me reconvening the House is illegal. That is what I want the public to understand.   “Assembly is a different arm of government and that arm needs to be respected. The sergeant-at-arm escorted me out of the chamber, meaning that the House stands adjourned. Nobody can reconvene that House except me.”   On the claim that he agreed to resign after three months, Isenah said: “I never had any arrangement with anybody. Let them show me any document to that effect. I have not done anything wrong and I don’t see the reason why I should be asked to resign. So, I didn’t resign and I’m not resigning.”   He added: “Bayelsans should discountenance anything that anybody is saying. At the appropriate time, I will avail the public of what really happened.”   A source from his office then who preferred anonymity said they placed two blackmails against him that if he fails to resign, it means that he doesn’t want the governor to come from his local government and that he doesn’t want PDP to win in Southern Ijaw.   The source further disclosed that there was no agreement whatsoever that he will step aside if Diri becomes the flag bearer of the PDP, maintaining that those were just lies.   His words: “There was nothing like that. There was no agreement anywhere. That was just a plot by Diri. He does not like Isenah. His aim is to retire him politically and I know he won’t succeed. It has nothing to do with elections. It has nothing to do with winning Southern Ijaw. It has nothing to do with even him becoming governor. It is just Kolokuma fight.   “He believes that the young man is being loved by the people and he is not being loved. So, he has to silence him. But I think he started the fight too late. What he would have done is for him to wait until when he wins before starting the fight. You can’t force him to go and campaign for Diri.”   These assumptions, not withstanding, Governor Dickson believes that Isenah’s claims were non-issues and he has gone ahead to reconcile the erstwhile speaker – Isenah and his successor – Obolo.   After the impeachment that had 18 members of the House of Assembly in attendance, there was a heavy presence of security men continuously for four days until Friday, October 4, when the new speaker had his first sitting with Isenah sitting as an ordinary member. However, the sitting was very peaceful and Isenah, who was in a sober mood, thanked the people of the state for the love they have so far shown to him.   He later wrote on his Facebook page: “Your love for me is immeasurable and will certainly not be taken for granted. He who fights and run away will certainly live to fight another day. It’s good to be a living hero than to be a dead hero. I love you all.   “Well, point made and lessons learnt. As the song writer will say: ‘Let it be, let it be, let it be.’ Apologies to those who will feel disappointed. Appreciation to all those who stood by me through this period. “Special thanks to my worthy con stituents, friends and well-wishers for the show of love and support. When I gather my memoirs and documents for my story, a whole lot will be revealed. Life itself is a struggle. Great grace and God’s speed.”   No doubt, the battle for the Bayelsa speakership has been won and lost, but the question on the minds of many in the state is: Did members of the House follow due process in impeaching Isenah.   Section 92 sub-section(2) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), provides for how a speaker or his deputy could be removed.   It states: “The Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the House of Assembly shall vacate his office – (a) if he ceases to be a member of the House of Assembly otherwise than by reason of the dissolution of the House; (b) When the House first sits after any dissolution of House; or (c) if he is removed from office by a resolution of House of Assembly by the votes of not less than two-third majority of the members of the House.”   The constitution further states that: “Whenever a notice of any allegation in writing signed by one-third of the Members of the Assembly is presented to Clerk, stating cogent and satisfactory grounds that the Speaker or Deputy Speaker is guilty of gross misconduct in the performance of the functions of his office detailed particulars of which shall be specified, the Clerk shall cause a copy of the notice to be served on the holder of the office and on each Member of the House within seven days, and shall also cause any statement made in reply to the allegation by the holder of the office to be served on each Member.   “Within fourteen days of the presentation of the Notice to the Clerk (whether or not any statement was made by the holder of the office in reply to the allegation contained in the allegation shall be investigated.  “A Motion of the House that the allegation be investigated shall not be declared as having been passed unless it is supported by at least votes of two-third majority of Members of the House.  “Within seven days of passing a Motion under the foregoing provisions of this Rule, the Speaker or the relevant Presiding Officer of the House shall be requested to appoint a panel of seven Members of the House.  “The holder of an office whose conduct is being investigated under this order shall have the right to defend himself in person or be represents by a Counsel of his choice.  “A panel appointed under this order shall have such powers and exercise its functions in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed by the House.  “Within three months of its appointment, report its findings to the House. Where the panel reports to the House that the allegation has not been proved, no further proceedings shall be taken in respect of the matter.   “When the report of the panel is that the allegation against the office holders is proved, then within fourteen (14) days of the receipt of the report, the House shall consider the report and if by Motion of the House supported by not less than two-third majority of all the Members, the report of the panel is adopted, then the holder of the office shall stand removed from office as from the date of the adoption of the report.”   Based on this constitutional provision, the poser over the Bayelsa Assembly drama is: Was there any allegation against Isenah according to the rules and regulations guiding the house or was his removal politically motivated?   When New Telegraph sought clarification on the issue, a judge in the state, who didn’t want his name mentioned said: “The truth of the matter is that my current position does not allow me to grant a press interview. I would not exactly know which side is correct, but the claim is that the speaker sat and adjourned the House.  “He sat and adjourned the House sine die and the other side said the House sat properly and then a majority of the members decided to impeach him. If the contention of Isenah is correct that he had sat earlier and adjourned the House, then the House could not have been convened after that adjournment.   “I didn’t watch the video of the sitting, so everything I said will be on speculation. But before a House would be adjourned, there must be a motion and somebody will second it and if there is a contrary motion, the matter will be put to vote. But, if no motion was moved and no body seconded it, then sincerely, the thing was not done.”   Already, Governor Dickson and the state chapter of the PDP have congratulated the new speaker.   The governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Fidelis Soriwei, described Obolo as a promising, young and vibrant political leader with the capacity to carry out the sensitive responsibility of presiding over the legislative arm of government.