…directs state councils to mobilise ahead Oct 16 deadline    T he Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has issued a directive to its state councils to begin mobilisation of its members to embark on a nationwide strike should labour and the Federal Government fail to reach a compromise on or before the October 16 deadline.   A circular by NLC’s General Secretary, Mr. Emmanuel Ugboaja, yesterday, and dispatched to all the state councils, further directed members of NLC to meet and coordinate strike preparations with members of the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the Joint Nation al Public Service Negotiating Committee (JNPSNC).   The circular, which was sighted by our correspondent, reads: “You will recall that a joint Communiqué was issued by NLC, TUC and JNPSNC, stating that two weeks from the date of the said communiqué, industrial harmony could not be guaranteed in the country should an agreement not be reached with the Federal Government on the consequential adjustment of salaries as a result of the new national minimum wage of N30,000. “You are hereby directed to coordinate preparations with TUC and JNPSNC in your states for necessary industrial action should the time expire without an agreement as contained in the circular.” On its part, TUC said it has already mobilised its members across the country to down tools at the expiration of the October 16 deadline.  General Secretary of TUC, Comrade Musa Lawal, who disclosed this to our correspondent in Abuja, said Congress decided to mobilise its members internally since there was no serious movement by government to show it was ready to meet labour’s demands on or before the deadline.  His words: “A general circular was issued to government that come October 15, if nothing happens by 16th October, we shall down tools. We have done our internal mobilisation, we don’t need to send any circular again. “The message is very clear. If by 16th nothing is done, then, of course, Nigerians will know that workers exist in Nigeria.  “We have already issued our ultimatum. What remains is for us to decide whether we will go ahead or we will not go ahead, but for now, there is nothing concrete to show that we will not go ahead,” Lawal said. The Federal Government has warned the leadership of the NLC and TUC, to strictly adhere to the provisions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which restricts labour from embarking on strike while reconciliatory negotiations were still ongoing. Reacting to the proposed strike should there be a breakdown in Tuesday’s negotiations, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, noted that in exercise of powers conferred on him as the chief councilliator,  “he apprehended the trade dispute and conciliation was on-going.”   In a statement made available to newsmen by his Special Adviser on Media, Mr. Nwachukwu Obidiwe, the minister said: “The leadership of the NLC and TUC knows full well, the laws  as well as the provisions of the ILO statutes on the current situation. I do not think they will wish to go against these elaborate provisions by taking to action while the conciliation is on. “So, the minister will continue his efforts tomorrow being today with separate meetings with labour and government side and joint conclusive meetings for Tuesday.”   New Telegraph recalls that the Trade Union Side (TUS) of the JNPSNC had earlier warned the Federal Government that it will not issue any further warning before embarking on a nationwide strike. The organised labour had demanded 29 per cent salary increase for officers on salary level 07 to 14 and 24 per cent adjustment for officers on salary grade level 15 to 17. However, the Federal Government presented a proposal of 11 per cent salary increase for officers on grade level 07 to 14 and 6.5 per cent adjustment for workers of grade level 15 to 17. The implementation of the new wage has remained a problem, arising from the issue of relativity and consequential adjustments. On May 14, the Federal Government inaugurated the relativity and consequential adjustment committee, which in turn set up a technical sub-committee to work out a template for the adjustment of salaries of public service employees. But, government and labour have failed to reach an agreement over relativity and consequential adjustments for the implementation of the new minimum wage over six months after it was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, 18th April, 2019. In a communique signed by President of NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba; TUC President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye and the Acting Chairman, JNPSNC (Trade Union Side), Comrade Simon Anchaver, the unionists lamented that workers in Nigeria were suffering due to huge inflation and astronomical hike in prices of essential goods and services since the last minimum wage of N18,000 was implemented years back. It also resolved to cripple the economy should the Federal Government fail to meet its demands within the next 14 days. “The leadership of organised labour in Nigeria wishes to categorically state that the leadership of labour cannot guarantee industrial peace and harmony in the country if our demands are not met at the close of work on Wednesday, 16th October, 2019,” the unions had said.