•Laments elevated level of poverty, others   T he closure of Nigeria’s land borders is adversely affecting the economies of Benin Republic and Niger, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said. Director, African Department, IMF, Abebe Selassie, disclosed this at a press briefing at the ongoing IMF/World Bank Annual Meetings in Washington DC.  “On the border closure in Nigeria, which has been impacting Benin and Niger, our understanding is that the border has been closed, reflecting concerns about smuggling that’s been taking place, illegal trade, not the legal trade that you want to facilitate,” he said. “So we’re very hopeful that, you know, discussions will resolve the challenges that this illegal trade is fostering.  To be sure, if the border closure was to be sustained for a long time it’s going to definitely have an impact on Benin and Niger, which of course, rely quite extensively on their big brother next door.  So, we hope that there will be a resolution to that.”  Abebe also advised the Nigerian government to continue to invest in healthcare, infrastructure and education. “You know, one of the things that strikes me about Nigeria is not just the variation in both economic outcomes, but also development, and social outcomes across this very large country,” he explained. “So, you know, in parts of the country, there are elevated levels of poverty, infant mortality, maternal mortality. These are really important indicators of well-being, which are very high in some parts of the country; and in other parts of the country are comparatively very low. “So, there’s this big variation in poverty outcomes, economic outcomes, as you know in your country. So, I think a really important focus, of course, is to try and identify those areas where these outcomes are really weak and, perhaps, region specific and ensure that the required interventions are done,” he added.  Besides, he advised the Federal Government to continue to design policies that would drive the diversification of the economy as well as ensure reduced reliance on crude oil, which he said, tends to dominate the country. “We must be sounding like a broke record when it comes to Nigeria, he said. “You know, the key way in which, of course, the government can address poverty, that challenge is by investing more in infrastructure, of course; but in health, in education and that requires resources; and that can only come from higher non-tax revenues, which remain, of course, very low at around seven per cent in the country.  “So, if there is a single policy lever that the government could address over the next couple of years, it is this non-tax revenue.  But, you know, this is not lost on policymakers, of course; and the 2020 finance bill is seeking to address that.” Moreover, he said the AfCFTA, would contribute significantly to facilitating trade in the region, adding that a study by the IMF showed that the continental trade pact holds tremendous opportunities in driving higher economic growth. “You know, one of the things about inter-Africa trade is that when countries are trading with the rest of the world, we tend to export natural resource commodities,” he explained.   “So, Nigeria exports oil to the rest of the world. But trade between countries tends to be that of manufactured, more processed good.  Partly of course this is because most countries produce natural resources so they don’t trade that with each other but they export it.” On the level of inflation in Nigeria, Abebe said a mixture of factors had kept inflation around double-digits in the country, despite the low level of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).