A former Super Eagles left winger, Friday Elaho, has paid glowing tribute to Samuel Chukwueze, a player whose style reminds fans of the retired winger’s dazzling runs down the left channel in his heyday in the national team. Elaho stated that the young winger has the potential to be great if he continues to play the way he does at the moment. Chukwueze, who has been a revelation since breaking into the national team at July’s African Cup of Nations in Egypt where the Super Eagles picked a bronze medal, also dazzled in the international friendly match against Brazil on Sunday, and Elaho noted that this is just a sign of things to come. “Chukwueze is a great prospect and if he continues on this trajectory, he has a good career ahead of him. You can see the way he plays, he has no fear; he carries the ball to the opponents and causes confusion through the left flank. That is also the way he plays in Villarreal and he has transferred that to the national team,” the ex-Eagles star stated. Elaho who was a member of the Super Eagles side that won a silver medal at the AFCON in Algeria in 1990, however advised the 20-year-old star to be calm at all times and not get carried away by his early success. He said: “My only advice to him is to be hardworking and calm. Those are very important elements in a successful football career. He can’t afford to be carried away at this stage in his career. If he remains committed and focused, he will have a great career.” The former Bendel Insurance and Brondy of Denmark star also took time to assess the current Super Eagles following their penultimate friendly match against Ukraine and the recent one against Brazil. Both matches ended in draws with the team putting up good performances on both occasions. “The current team is good, and another thing they have going for them is that they are very young. In another two to three years, they will be more mature and that is when we will see the best of them. My only hope is that they remain consistent,” Elaho added.